Sponsors: []Modifications: (3)(3) (a)  Voting for the selection of nominees may differ from voting during the screeningprocess.  Voting may occur in one or two more rounds, depending on the outcome of each round. Each commissioner is allotted a number of votes for each round equal to the number of nomineesremaining to be selected.  For the selection of nominees for a trial court, each commissioner hasfive votes during the first round.  If one nominee is selected during the first round, eachcommissioner has four votes during the next round.  If there are multiple vacancies, the numberof votes allotted to each commissioner during each round of voting is multiplied by the numberof vacancies, and the commission selects nominees as a pool without matching any vote or anycandidate to a particular vacancy.(b)  Voting is by confidential ballot.(c)  A commissioner may not cast more than one vote for a single candidate during anysingle round of voting.(d)  A commissioner must cast all allotted votes in each round.(e)  Any candidate receiving in any round a number of votes one less than the number ofvoting commissioners present is selected as a nominee.  If, after any round of voting, a candidatereceives two or fewer votes, the candidate is removed from consideration during subsequentrounds of voting.  The commission should further debate the qualifications of candidates who areneither selected nor removed from consideration before conducting the next round of voting. Voting and discussion continues until the requisite number of nominees have been selected.(f)  The commission can reconsider its action on any candidate upon a majority vote to doso.(g)  If after full deliberation the commission is unable to agree upon the required numberof nominees in the above described manner, those candidates not removed from consideration shallbe considered to be tied within the meaning of Section 20A-12-105(3), and the commission maycertify up to two additional names.(h)  The total vote tally, but not the vote of individual commissioners, is recorded in theminutes.  After the vote tallies are verified and recorded, the ballots are destroyed.(4)  Unless the commission determines that there are not five qualified applicants, a list offive names shall be certified to the governor for his selection, but in no event shall fewer than threenames be certified.(5)  The governor may reject the initial list sent by the commission and request a new list,but the timelines for selection remain as provided by the Utah Constitution.(6)(7)This act takes effect on July 1, 1998.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WP 6.1 HB0157.ZIP 10,172 Bytes
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 157





1     JUDICIAL NOMINATING COMMISSION


2     AMENDMENTS




3    1998 GENERAL SESSION


4    STATE OF UTAH


5     Sponsor:  Christine R. Fox-Finlinson


6    AN ACT RELATING TO THE ELECTION CODE; SPECIFYING PROCEDURES FOR

7    SELECTING JUDICIAL NOMINEES TO BE CERTIFIED TO THE GOVERNOR; MAKING

8    TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

9    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

10    AMENDS:

11         20A-12-104 (Effective 07/01/98), as last amended by Chapter 249, Laws of Utah 1997

12    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

13        Section 1.  Section  20A-12-104 (Effective 07/01/98) is amended to read:

14         20A-12-104 (Effective 07/01/98).  Procedures governing meetings of judicial

15     nominating commissions.

16        (1)  The Judicial Council shall:

17        (a)  enact rules establishing procedures governing the meetings of the judicial nominating

18    commissions; and

19        (b)  ensure that those procedures include:

20        (i)  a minimum recruitment period of 30 days and a procedure to extend that period for an

21    additional 30 days if fewer than nine applications are received for a judicial vacancy;

22        (ii)  standards for maintaining the confidentiality of the applications and related documents;

23        (iii)  standards governing the release of applicant names before nomination;

24        (iv)  standards for destroying the records of the names of applicants, applications, and

25    related documents upon completion of the nominating process;

26        (v)  an opportunity for public comment concerning the nominating process, qualifications

27    for judicial office, and individual applicants;


1        (vi)  evaluation criteria for the selection of judicial nominees;

2        (vii)  procedures for taking summary minutes at nominating commission meetings;

3        (viii)  procedures for simultaneously forwarding the names of nominees to the governor,

4    the president of the Senate, and the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel; and

5        (ix)  standards governing a nominating commissioner's disqualification and inability to

6    serve.

7        (2) (a) (i)  Except as provided in this Subsection (2)(a)(ii), if a judicial nominating

8    commission receives 15 or more applications to fill a judicial vacancy, the nominating commission

9    shall submit at least five names to the governor.

10        (ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a)(i), if five applicants do not receive the required

11    number of votes as specified in Subsection [(2)(c)] (3) from the nominating commission, the

12    commission shall submit only the names of applicants that received the required number of votes,

13    but must submit the names of at least three applicants.

14        (b)  In determining whether or not to submit an applicant's name to the governor, a

15    commission may not decline to consider an applicant merely because:

16        (i)  the nominating commission had declined to submit that candidate's name to the

17    governor to fill a previous vacancy;

18        (ii)  a previous nominating commission had declined to submit that candidate's name to the

19    governor; or

20        (iii)  that nominating commission or a previous nominating commission had submitted the

21    applicant's name to the governor and the governor selected someone else to fill the vacancy.

22        [(c)  The vote required to submit an applicant's name to the governor is as follows:]

23        [(i)  if all seven members of the nominating commission are present and considering

24    applicants, a vote in favor of the applicant by four commissioners submits the candidate's name

25    to the governor;]

26        [(ii)  if only six members of the nominating commission are present and considering

27    applicants because one member is unable to attend, has recused himself or is otherwise

28    disqualified, a vote in favor of the applicant by four commissioners submits the candidate's name

29    to the governor;]

30        [(iii)  if only five members of the nominating commission are present and considering

31    applicants because two members are unable to attend, have recused themselves, or are otherwise

- 2 -


1    disqualified, a vote in favor of the applicant by three commissioners submits the candidate's name

2    to the governor; and]

3        [(iv)  if only four members of the nominating commission are present and considering

4    applicants because three members are unable to attend, have recused themselves, or are otherwise

5    disqualified, a vote in favor of the applicant by three commissioners submits the candidate's name

6    to the governor.]

7        (3) (a)  Voting for the selection of nominees may differ from voting during the screening

8    process.  Voting may occur in one or two more rounds, depending on the outcome of each round. 

9    Each commissioner is allotted a number of votes for each round equal to the number of nominees

10    remaining to be selected.  For the selection of nominees for a trial court, each commissioner has

11    five votes during the first round.  If one nominee is selected during the first round, each

12    commissioner has four votes during the next round.  If there are multiple vacancies, the number

13    of votes allotted to each commissioner during each round of voting is multiplied by the number

14    of vacancies, and the commission selects nominees as a pool without matching any vote or any

15    candidate to a particular vacancy.

16        (b)  Voting is by confidential ballot.

17        (c)  A commissioner may not cast more than one vote for a single candidate during any

18    single round of voting.

19        (d)  A commissioner must cast all allotted votes in each round.

20        (e)  Any candidate receiving in any round a number of votes one less than the number of

21    voting commissioners present is selected as a nominee.  If, after any round of voting, a candidate

22    receives two or fewer votes, the candidate is removed from consideration during subsequent

23    rounds of voting.  The commission should further debate the qualifications of candidates who are

24    neither selected nor removed from consideration before conducting the next round of voting. 

25    Voting and discussion continues until the requisite number of nominees have been selected.

26        (f)  The commission can reconsider its action on any candidate upon a majority vote to do

27    so.

28        (g)  If after full deliberation the commission is unable to agree upon the required number

29    of nominees in the above described manner, those candidates not removed from consideration shall

30    be considered to be tied within the meaning of Section 20A-12-105(3), and the commission may

31    certify up to two additional names.

- 3 -


1        (h)  The total vote tally, but not the vote of individual commissioners, is recorded in the

2    minutes.  After the vote tallies are verified and recorded, the ballots are destroyed.

3        (4)  Unless the commission determines that there are not five qualified applicants, a list of

4    five names shall be certified to the governor for his selection, but in no event shall fewer than three

5    names be certified.

6        (5)  The governor may reject the initial list sent by the commission and request a new list,

7    but the timelines for selection remain as provided by the Utah Constitution.

8        [(3)] (6)  A judicial nominating commission may not nominate a justice or judge who was

9    not retained by the voters for the office for which the justice or judge was defeated until after the

10    expiration of that term of office.

11        [(4)] (7)  Judicial nominating commissions are exempt from the requirements of Title 52,

12    Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings, and Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking

13    Act.

14        Section 2.   Effective date.

15        This act takes effect on July 1, 1998.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   1-27-98  7:00 PM


A limited legal review of this bill raises no obvious constitutional or statutory concerns.

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel


- 4 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







