Sponsors: []Modifications:     63L-6-105.The Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands is hereby enacted and enteredinto with all other jurisdictions that can legally join in the compact, which is, in form,substantially as follows:Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public LandsWhereas, the separation of powers, both between the branches of the federalgovernment and between federal and state authority, is essential to the preservation ofindividual liberty;Whereas, the Constitution of the United States creates a federal government of limitedand enumerated powers and reserves to the states or to the people those powers not expresslygranted to the federal government to protect the liberty of individual property incidental to thesovereignty and the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens;Whereas, each state adopting and agreeing to be bound by this compact finds that thecoordinated, regular, institutional exercise of its sovereign power under its respectiveconstitution and the Constitution of the United States is an essential component of thegoverning partnership between the states and the federal government;NOW, THEREFORE, the states hereto resolve and, by the adoption into law under theirrespective state constitutions of this Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands, agree,as follows:Sec. 1.  Definitions.As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:(1)  "Associate member state" means any state that is not a "Member State."(2)  "Compact" means the Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands.(3)  "Compact administrator" means the person selected by the compact commission tostaff the compact commission and whose duties, powers, and tenure are only those approved bythe commission.(4)  "Compact commission" means the entity composed of member state representativesand who will administer the compact.(5)  "Compact notice recipient" means the archivist of the United States, the presidentof the United States, the office of the secretary of the United States Senate, the majority leaderof the United States Senate, the speaker of the United States House of Representatives, theoffice of the clerk of the United States House of Representatives, the chief executive of eachstate, and the presiding officer of each chamber of the Legislature of each state.(6)  "Member state" means any of the following states that are a signatory to thecompact and that have adopted it under the laws of that state: Alaska; Arizona; California;Colorado; Idaho; Montana; Nevada; New Mexico; Oregon; Utah; Washington; and Wyoming.Sec.  2.  Purpose of the compact and commission.The purpose of the compact and commission is to study, collect data, and developpolitical and legal mechanisms for securing the transfer to the respective member states ofcertain specially identified federally controlled public lands within the respective member stateboundaries.Sec.  3.  Compact commission and compact administrator.(1)  The compact commission is hereby established and has the powers and duties asfollows:(a)  elect, by majority vote, a chair and cochair from among the compact's members,who shall serve a term of office of two years and may serve no more than two terms as chair orcochair;(b)  appoint a compact administrator who shall report to the chair and cochair;(c)  request and disburse funds for the operation of the compact commission;(d)  allow the compact commission to seek staff and research assistance from nonprofitorganizations;(e)  adopt parliamentary procedures and publish bylaws consistent with member states,(f)  receive, evaluate, and respond to input from compact commission membersregarding actions taken by the federal government that interfere with the:(i)  powers reserved to the state;(ii)  regulation of real property, including land titles, uses, and transfers;(iii)  regulation of agriculture and nonagricultural businesses that do not engage ininterstate commerce; and(iv)  jurisdiction for the health, safety, and welfare of a state's residents;(g)  keep and publish minutes of compact commission meetings and records of thecompact administrator both of which shall be considered public records and available uponrequest by the public; and(h)  prepare an annual report of the compact commission's activities for member andassociate member states.(2)  The compact administrator shall staff the compact commission, perform duties, andexercise powers as granted by the commission, or as directed by the chair or cochair.(3)  A majority of the member state representatives present at a compact commissionmeeting constitutes a quorum and an action of the quorum constitutes an action of the compactcommission.  Each member state shall have one official representative who shall have onevote.(4)  The compact commission may not take any action within a member or associatemember state that contravenes any state law of that member or associate member state.Sec.  4.  Compact membership and withdrawal.(1)  Each member and associate member state agrees to perform and comply inaccordance with the terms of membership of this compact consistent with the constitution andlaws of the member or associate member state.  Actions by members of the compact, for thepurpose for which it was created, are based upon the mutual participation, reliance, andreciprocal performance in agreeing to enact this compact into law.(2)  A state enacting this compact into law shall appoint one official representative tothe compact commission and shall provide to the compact commission a letter of thatrepresentative's appointment.  A copy of the letter of appointment with a government-issuedphoto identity card shall constitute proof of membership on the compact commission.(3)  For voting purposes, only a member state representative may vote and each memberstate may have only one vote.(4)  A member or associate member state may withdraw from this compact by enactinglegislation and giving notice of the enacted withdrawal legislation to the compactadministrator.  No such withdrawal shall take effect until six months following the enactmentof withdrawal legislation and a withdrawing state is liable for any obligations that it may haveincurred prior to the date upon which its withdrawal legislation becomes effective.Sec.  5.  Adoption of compact.Upon a state adopting the compact and notifying the compact administrator, theadministrator shall notify all other member states of the adoption by sending an updatedcertified copy of the compact with the new adoptee state listed.Sec.  6.  Commission meetings.(1)  The initial meeting of the compact commission shall be within 90 days after thecompact is enacted by two or more states.  The official representatives of the enacting statesshall determine the date, time, and location of the initial meeting and publish that informationin their respective states in a manner consistent with the laws of those states for postingnotifications and agendas of public meetings.  At the initial meeting, those officialrepresentatives shall, as provided in Sec. 4, elect a chair and cochair, and appoint a compactadministrator.  The compact administrator shall, as directed by the compact commission chairsand as provided in the compact, organize the compact commission's activities.(2)  Following the compact commission's initial meeting, the compact commission shallmeet at least one time per year.  No meeting shall continue longer than three consecutive days.(3)  Special meetings may be called if half or more of the member states notify the chairof the compact commission in writing of the request for a meeting.  Attendance at the meetingmay be in person or by electronic means.  No meeting shall continue longer than threeconsecutive days.(4)  Meetings shall be recorded, and the recording and minutes of the meeting shall bemade available to the public within 30 days after the meeting.  Meetings closed to the publicare not permitted except where provided by law in the state in which the meeting is held.Sec.  7.  Funding.The activities of the compact commission and compact administrator shall be fundedexclusively by each member and associate member state, as permitted by the laws of thosestates, or by voluntary donations.  Records shall be kept of all funding and disbursements, andthat information shall be available within 30 days upon request by a compact commissionmember, or by a member state or associate member state.Sec.  8.  Cooperation.The compact commission, member states, associate member states, and the compactadministrator shall cooperate and offer mutual assistance with each other in enforcing the termsof the compact for securing the transfer of title to federally controlled public lands to willingwestern states.Sec.  9.  Declaration of Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands Goals.(1)  Member states, in order to restore, protect, and promote state sovereignty and thehealth, safety, and welfare of their citizens, shall:(a)  develop and draft model uniform legislation for member states to adopt in securingsovereignty and jurisdiction over federal lands within the respective member state boundaries;(b)  develop and draft model uniform legislation for member states to send to theirfederal delegation for introduction in Congress for the transfer of federally controlled publiclands to the respective member state governments; and(c)  develop legal strategies for securing state sovereignty and jurisdiction over federallycontrolled public lands within member state boundaries.(2)  The compact goals in Subsection (1) take effect when:(a)  two states have become member states and adopted the terms in legislation; and(b)  Congress votes to consent to the terms of this compact under United StatesConstitution Article I, Section 10.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

H.B. 164





            
1

    
 INTERSTATE COMPACT ON TRANSFER OF PUBLIC

            
2

    
 LANDS



            
3

    
2014 GENERAL SESSION

            
4

    
STATE OF UTAH

            
5

    


 Chief Sponsor:  Keven J. Stratton



            
6

    



Senate Sponsor: 






  Evan J. Vickers





            
7

    

            
8

    
 LONG TITLE
            
9

    
 General Description:
            
10

    
    This bill provides for an interstate compact for the transfer of western public lands from
            
11

    
federal control to state control.
            
12

    
 Highlighted Provisions:
            
13

    
    This bill:
            
14

    
    .    enacts an interstate compact establishing a compact commission to consider
            
15

    
mechanisms for securing the transfer of federal land to member states;
            
16

    
    .    provides for membership and withdrawal;
            
17

    
    .    establishes a commission and an administrator;
            
18

    
    .    designates funding sources; and
            
19

    
    .    defines the goals of securing sovereignty and jurisdiction over western states' public
            
20

    
lands.
            
21

    
 Money Appropriated in this Bill:
            
22

    
    None
            
23

    
 Other Special Clauses:
            
24

    
    None
            
25

    
 Utah Code Sections Affected:
            
26

    
ENACTS:
            
27

    
     
63L-6-105
, Utah Code Annotated 1953

            
28


    

            
29

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            
30

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
63L-6-105

 is enacted to read:
            
31

    
     63L-6-105.  Interstate compact -- Transfer of public land.
            
32

    
    The Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands is hereby enacted and entered
            
33

    
into with all other jurisdictions that can legally join in the compact, which is, in form,
            
34

    
substantially as follows:
            
35

    
Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands

            
36

    
    Whereas, the separation of powers, both between the branches of the federal
            
37

    
government and between federal and state authority, is essential to the preservation of
            
38

    
individual liberty;
            
39

    
    Whereas, the Constitution of the United States creates a federal government of limited
            
40

    
and enumerated powers and reserves to the states or to the people those powers not expressly
            
41

    
granted to the federal government to protect the liberty of individual property incidental to the
            
42

    
sovereignty and the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens;
            
43

    
    Whereas, each state adopting and agreeing to be bound by this compact finds that the
            
44

    
coordinated, regular, institutional exercise of its sovereign power under its respective
            
45

    
constitution and the Constitution of the United States is an essential component of the
            
46

    
governing partnership between the states and the federal government;
            
47

    
    NOW, THEREFORE, the states hereto resolve and, by the adoption into law under their
            
48

    
respective state constitutions of this Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands, agree,
            
49

    
as follows:
            
50

    
    Sec. 1.  Definitions.
            
51

    
    As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
            
52

    
    (1)  "Associate member state" means any state that is not a "Member State."
            
53

    
    (2)  "Compact" means the Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands.
            
54

    
    (3)  "Compact administrator" means the person selected by the compact commission to
            
55

    
staff the compact commission and whose duties, powers, and tenure are only those approved by
            
56

    
the commission.
            
57

    
    (4)  "Compact commission" means the entity composed of member state representatives
            
58

    
and who will administer the compact.

            
59


    
    (5)  "Compact notice recipient" means the archivist of the United States, the president
            
60

    
of the United States, the office of the secretary of the United States Senate, the majority leader
            
61

    
of the United States Senate, the speaker of the United States House of Representatives, the
            
62

    
office of the clerk of the United States House of Representatives, the chief executive of each
            
63

    
state, and the presiding officer of each chamber of the Legislature of each state.
            
64

    
    (6)  "Member state" means any of the following states that are a signatory to the
            
65

    
compact and that have adopted it under the laws of that state: Alaska; Arizona; California;
            
66

    
Colorado; Idaho; Montana; Nevada; New Mexico; Oregon; Utah; Washington; and Wyoming.
            
67

    
    Sec.  2.  Purpose of the compact and commission.
            
68

    
    The purpose of the compact and commission is to study, collect data, and develop
            
69

    
political and legal mechanisms for securing the transfer to the respective member states of
            
70

    
certain specially identified federally controlled public lands within the respective member state
            
71

    
boundaries.
            
72

    
    Sec.  3.  Compact commission and compact administrator.
            
73

    
    (1)  The compact commission is hereby established and has the powers and duties as
            
74

    
follows:
            
75

    
    (a)  elect, by majority vote, a chair and cochair from among the compact's members,
            
76

    
who shall serve a term of office of two years and may serve no more than two terms as chair or
            
77

    
cochair;
            
78

    
    (b)  appoint a compact administrator who shall report to the chair and cochair;
            
79

    
    (c)  request and disburse funds for the operation of the compact commission;
            
80

    
    (d)  allow the compact commission to seek staff and research assistance from nonprofit
            
81

    
organizations;
            
82

    
    (e)  adopt parliamentary procedures and publish bylaws consistent with member states,
            
83

    
    (f)  receive, evaluate, and respond to input from compact commission members
            
84

    
regarding actions taken by the federal government that interfere with the:
            
85

    
    (i)  powers reserved to the state;
            
86

    
    (ii)  regulation of real property, including land titles, uses, and transfers;
            
87

    
    (iii)  regulation of agriculture and nonagricultural businesses that do not engage in
            
88

    
interstate commerce; and
            
89

    
    (iv)  jurisdiction for the health, safety, and welfare of a state's residents;

            
90


    
    (g)  keep and publish minutes of compact commission meetings and records of the
            
91

    
compact administrator both of which shall be considered public records and available upon
            
92

    
request by the public; and
            
93

    
    (h)  prepare an annual report of the compact commission's activities for member and
            
94

    
associate member states.
            
95

    
    (2)  The compact administrator shall staff the compact commission, perform duties, and
            
96

    
exercise powers as granted by the commission, or as directed by the chair or cochair.
            
97

    
    (3)  A majority of the member state representatives present at a compact commission
            
98

    
meeting constitutes a quorum and an action of the quorum constitutes an action of the compact
            
99

    
commission.  Each member state shall have one official representative who shall have one
            
100

    
vote.
            
101

    
    (4)  The compact commission may not take any action within a member or associate
            
102

    
member state that contravenes any state law of that member or associate member state.
            
103

    
    Sec.  4.  Compact membership and withdrawal.
            
104

    
    (1)  Each member and associate member state agrees to perform and comply in
            
105

    
accordance with the terms of membership of this compact consistent with the constitution and
            
106

    
laws of the member or associate member state.  Actions by members of the compact, for the
            
107

    
purpose for which it was created, are based upon the mutual participation, reliance, and
            
108

    
reciprocal performance in agreeing to enact this compact into law.
            
109

    
    (2)  A state enacting this compact into law shall appoint one official representative to
            
110

    
the compact commission and shall provide to the compact commission a letter of that
            
111

    
representative's appointment.  A copy of the letter of appointment with a government-issued
            
112

    
photo identity card shall constitute proof of membership on the compact commission.
            
113

    
    (3)  For voting purposes, only a member state representative may vote and each member
            
114

    
state may have only one vote.
            
115

    
    (4)  A member or associate member state may withdraw from this compact by enacting
            
116

    
legislation and giving notice of the enacted withdrawal legislation to the compact
            
117

    
administrator.  No such withdrawal shall take effect until six months following the enactment
            
118

    
of withdrawal legislation and a withdrawing state is liable for any obligations that it may have
            
119

    
incurred prior to the date upon which its withdrawal legislation becomes effective.
            
120

    
    Sec.  5.  Adoption of compact.

            
121


    
    Upon a state adopting the compact and notifying the compact administrator, the
            
122

    
administrator shall notify all other member states of the adoption by sending an updated
            
123

    
certified copy of the compact with the new adoptee state listed.
            
124

    
    Sec.  6.  Commission meetings.
            
125

    
    (1)  The initial meeting of the compact commission shall be within 90 days after the
            
126

    
compact is enacted by two or more states.  The official representatives of the enacting states
            
127

    
shall determine the date, time, and location of the initial meeting and publish that information
            
128

    
in their respective states in a manner consistent with the laws of those states for posting
            
129

    
notifications and agendas of public meetings.  At the initial meeting, those official
            
130

    
representatives shall, as provided in Sec. 4, elect a chair and cochair, and appoint a compact
            
131

    
administrator.  The compact administrator shall, as directed by the compact commission chairs
            
132

    
and as provided in the compact, organize the compact commission's activities.
            
133

    
    (2)  Following the compact commission's initial meeting, the compact commission shall
            
134

    
meet at least one time per year.  No meeting shall continue longer than three consecutive days.
            
135

    
    (3)  Special meetings may be called if half or more of the member states notify the chair
            
136

    
of the compact commission in writing of the request for a meeting.  Attendance at the meeting
            
137

    
may be in person or by electronic means.  No meeting shall continue longer than three
            
138

    
consecutive days.
            
139

    
    (4)  Meetings shall be recorded, and the recording and minutes of the meeting shall be
            
140

    
made available to the public within 30 days after the meeting.  Meetings closed to the public
            
141

    
are not permitted except where provided by law in the state in which the meeting is held.
            
142

    
    Sec.  7.  Funding.
            
143

    
    The activities of the compact commission and compact administrator shall be funded
            
144

    
exclusively by each member and associate member state, as permitted by the laws of those
            
145

    
states, or by voluntary donations.  Records shall be kept of all funding and disbursements, and
            
146

    
that information shall be available within 30 days upon request by a compact commission
            
147

    
member, or by a member state or associate member state.
            
148

    
    Sec.  8.  Cooperation.
            
149

    
    The compact commission, member states, associate member states, and the compact
            
150

    
administrator shall cooperate and offer mutual assistance with each other in enforcing the terms
            
151

    
of the compact for securing the transfer of title to federally controlled public lands to willing

            
152


    
western states.
            
153

    
    Sec.  9.  Declaration of Interstate Compact on the Transfer of Public Lands Goals.
            
154

    
    (1)  Member states, in order to restore, protect, and promote state sovereignty and the
            
155

    
health, safety, and welfare of their citizens, shall:
            
156

    
    (a)  develop and draft model uniform legislation for member states to adopt in securing
            
157

    
sovereignty and jurisdiction over federal lands within the respective member state boundaries;
            
158

    
    (b)  develop and draft model uniform legislation for member states to send to their
            
159

    
federal delegation for introduction in Congress for the transfer of federally controlled public
            
160

    
lands to the respective member state governments; and
            
161

    
    (c)  develop legal strategies for securing state sovereignty and jurisdiction over federally
            
162

    
controlled public lands within member state boundaries.
            
163

    
    (2)  The compact goals in Subsection (1) take effect when:
            
164

    
    (a)  two states have become member states and adopted the terms in legislation; and
            
165

    
    (b)  Congress votes to consent to the terms of this compact under United States
            
166

    
Constitution Article I, Section 10.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   2-24-14  10:21 AM

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







