Sponsors: []Modifications:     53A-1a-401.(1)  The Legislature recognizes that public schools leading educational reform into the 21stCentury will be schools that aggressively pursue the goal of continuous improvement andcustomize their education programs to address individual needs of students, and that the state'sCentennial and Modified Centennial Schools Programs have established a strong foundation forthe emergence of just such a program.(2)  The Legislature further recognizes that financial incentives can help stimulate andprovide opportunities for public schools to discover and implement creative solutions to eachschool's unique challenges in helping to prepare individual students to compete and succeed inwhat has become a global society.    53A-1a-402.(1)  There is established a Schools for the 21st Century Program to allow selected publicschools to commit to a challenging course of continuous improvement.(2)  Participation in the program is on a voluntary basis and subject to the followingrequirements:(a)  development and implementation of a three-year action plan designed to improvestudent achievement in targeted academic areas;(b)  development and implementation of an accountability program to measure studentachievement against targets established in the action plan referred to in Subsection (2)(a);(c)  development and implementation of a plan to effectively implement technology intothe curriculum in such a way that students have the opportunity to learn using that technology;(d)  except as otherwise provided in this part, the qualification requirements listed inSection 53A-1a-302 for a centennial school and the school director requirements listed inSubsection 53A-1a-303.5(4) for a modified centennial school; and(e)  if the applicant is a centennial or modified centennial school, it may not receivecentennial or modified centennial moneys if selected to participate in this program.(3) (a)  The school's directors shall develop the action plan required under Subsection(2)(a).(b)  The plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:(i)  identification of three areas of academic performance in which the school shall showimprovement  in student achievement during the three-year program;(ii)  priority given to improvement in reading, writing, and mathematics, unless the schooldocuments a need for improvement in another academic area after having given due considerationto reading, writing, and mathematics skills;(iii)  identification of and proposed actions to improve at least two conditions related toteaching and learning, which could include, but not be limited to, conditions such as school safety,increasing the number of parents participating in student education plans or student education -occupation plans, reducing truancy or drop out rates, or enhancing professional development asrelated to the action plan;(iv)  identification of the uses of all improvement funds and programs at the school, bothstate and federal, and, where appropriate, relating these funds and programs to the action plan;(v)  the development and plans for implementation of meaningful student learning goalsby teachers, parents, and students;(vi)  identification of a means of measuring by objective and quantifiable methods theextent to which the plan has been achieved; and(vii)  provisions for the professional development of educators at the school focused onimproving student performance, for seeking technical assistance in developing and implementingthe plan, and for identifying effective models of school improvement.    53A-1a-403.(1)  The State Board of Education, in collaboration with the governor's office, shall developand implement application procedures and a process for the selection of up to 60 schools each yearover a three-year period for participation in the Schools for the 21st Century Program authorizedunder this part.(2)  Selected schools shall participate in the program and be eligible for funding for threeconsecutive years.(3) (a)  The Legislature shall provide an annual appropriation to fund the program.(b)  The board, through the State Office of Education, shall administer and distribute theappropriation in the following manner:(i)  each school selected as a first-year participant shall receive a base amount of between$5,000 to $10,000 depending on the size of the school;(ii)  each first-year school shall also receive an additional per student allocation of up to$27, based upon the number of students as of October 1 in the program as related to the amountof appropriation available for distribution after the base amount has been calculated for all theschools participating on a first-year basis under Subsection (3)(b)(i);(iii)  each school in its second year shall receive $9 per student and be eligible to receivean incentive award based upon its achievement of second-year goals; and(iv)  each school in its third year shall be eligible to receive major incentive awards basedupon achievement of third-year goals.(c) (i)  The board shall determine the amount of incentive award money given to schoolsunder Subsections (3)(b)(iii) and (iv) on the basis of goal attainment and student enrollment, witha minimum threshold of 50% attainment of goals for second-year schools and a minimumthreshold of 60% attainment for third-year schools in order to receive a portion of the awardmoney.(ii)  It is estimated that the incentive award money generated for successful second-yearschools would be up to $500 per certificated professional staff member at each participating schooland increase to up to $2,000 per certificated professional staff member for each successfulthird-year school.(d) (i)  First-year schools shall use their allocations for program development,implementation, and evaluation, technical assistance, and teacher development, including theestablishment of performance goals and identification of a system of measurement and evaluation.(ii) (A)  Second-year schools shall use their per student allocations for continuing programoperation, modification, and evaluation.(B)  If participating schools meet the threshold established in Subsection(3)(c)(i), basedupon documentation of the school's progress provided to the board by the school, the appropriateshare of incentive award money shall be distributed each year at the school level as determined bythe school directors.(C)  The distribution may include giving award shares to the school as a whole or toindividual programs at the school or to professional staff members or any combination of theseoptions.(iii)  Third-year schools shall receive all appropriate incentive moneys under the programbased on year-end evaluation of goal attainment and shall distribute it on the same basis assecond-year schools distribute incentive award money under Subsections (3)(d)(ii)(B) and (C).    53A-1a-404.(1)  Each participant school under this part shall develop an accountability plan to measurestudent achievement against targets established by the school.(2)  The accountability plan shall document the progress towards attaining identifiedperformance goals at the school and report the results annually.(3) (a)  The accountability plan shall include the following:(i)  documentation of present student achievement levels;(ii)  norm-referenced tests which can reasonably assess the performance of students in theareas the school has targeted for improvement, including the Stanford Achievement Test requiredin grades 5, 8, and 11, where applicable;(iii)  criterion-referenced tests which can reasonably assess the performance of students inthe areas the school has targeted for improvement, to include the state core assessments; and(iv)  documentation of progress toward improving conditions for teaching and learning.(b)  The plan may include additional measurements of student performance such as writingassessments or student portfolios.(4) (a)  The state board shall closely monitor the activities of each school participating inthe program and provide assistance if requested by the school's directors.(b)  The state board, in collaboration with the school directors and the local school boardof the district in which the charter school is located, shall require an annual evaluation on eachschool's achievement of its performance goals established pursuant to this part and provide asummary report on the evaluations to the Legislature and the governor.    53A-1a-501.This part is known as "The Utah Charter Schools Act."    53A-1a-502.(1)  As a second part of the Schools for the 21st Century initiative the Legislatureauthorizes the creation of up to eight charter schools.(2)  Charter schools are considered to be part of the state's public education system.(3)  A charter school may be established by creating a new school or converting an existingpublic school to charter status.    53A-1a-503.The purpose of charter schools is to:(1)  improve student learning;(2)  encourage the use of different and innovative teaching methods;(3)  create new professional opportunities for educators that will allow them to activelyparticipate in designing and implementing the learning program at the school;(4)  increase choice of learning opportunities for students;(5)  establish new models of public schools and a new form of accountability for schoolsthat emphasizes the measurement of learning outcomes and the creation of innovativemeasurement tools; and(6)  provide opportunities for greater parental involvement in management decisions at theschool level.    53A-1-504.(1)  A proposal to establish a charter school may be made by an individual or groups ofindividuals, including teachers and parents or guardians of students who will attend the school, ora legal entity organized under the laws of this state.(2) (a)  The principal, teachers, or parents of students at an existing public school maysubmit a proposal to convert the school or a portion of the school to charter status.(b) (i)  At least two-thirds of the certificated educators employed at the school and at leasttwo-thirds of the parents or guardians of students enrolled at the school must have signed a petitionapproving the proposal prior to its submission to the sponsoring entity if the entire school isapplying for charter status.    (ii)  The percentage is reduced to a simple majority if the conversion is for only a portionof the school.(3)  A parochial school or home school is not eligible for charter school status.    53A-1-505.(1)  An applicant for a charter school shall seek sponsorship of its charter from the StateBoard of Education.(2) (a)  The State Board of Education shall review and, by majority vote, either approveor deny the application within 60 days after the application is received by the board.(b) (i)  The applicant shall also provide a copy of the application to the local school boardof the school district in which the proposed charter school shall be located at the same time it filesits application with the state board.(ii)  The local board may review the application and may offer suggestions orrecommendations to the applicant or the state board prior to its acting on the application.(iii)  The state board shall give due consideration to suggestions or recommendations madeby the local school board under Subsection (2)(b)(ii).(c)  The state board's action under Subsection (2)(a) is final action subject to judicialreview.(3) (a)  The applicant and the state board shall set forth the terms and conditions for theoperation of the charter school in a written contractual agreement.(b)  The contract is the school's charter.(4)  The State Office of Education and the school district in which the school is to belocated may provide technical assistance to an applicant upon written request.    53A-1a-506.(1)  All resident students of the state qualify for admission to a charter school, subject tothe limitations set forth in this section.(2) (a)  A charter school shall enroll an eligible student who submits a timely application,unless the number of applications exceeds the capacity of a program, class, grade level, or theschool.(b) (i)  If the number of applications exceeds the capacity of a program, class, grade level,or the school, then students shall be selected on a random basis except that the school may givepreference to a student of a parent who has actively participated in the development of the schooland to siblings of students presently enrolled in the school, not to exceed 30% of the studentpopulation for preferential selection.(ii)  The school may give preference to students who reside within the school district inwhich the school is located.(c)  When a public school converts to charter status, the school shall give enrollmentpreference to students who would have otherwise attended it as a regular public school.(3)  A charter school may not discriminate in its admission policies or practices on thesame basis as other public schools may not discriminate in their admission policies and practices.    53A-1a-507.(1)  A charter school shall be nonsectarian in its programs, admission policies, employmentpractices, and operations.(2)  A charter school may not charge tuition or fees, except those fees normally chargedby other public schools.(3)  A charter school shall meet all applicable state and local health, safety, and civil rightsrequirements.(4) (a)  A charter school shall make the same annual reports required of other publicschools under Title 53A, including an annual financial audit report.(b)  The school shall make its reports directly to the State Board of Education and providea copy to the local school board of the district in which the school is located.(5)  A charter school shall be accountable to the state board for performance as providedin Section 53A-1a-509.(6)  A charter school may not advocate unlawful behavior.    53A-1a-508.(1)  The major issues involving the operation of a charter school shall be considered inadvance by the applicant for a charter school and written into the school's charter.(2)  The governing body of the charter school and the State Board of Education shall signthe charter.(3)  The charter shall address:(a)  the age or grade levels to be served by the school;(b)  the governance structure of the charter school;(c)  the financial plan for the school and the provisions which will be made for auditing theschool under Subsection 53A-1a-507(4)(a);(d)  the mission and education goals of the school, the curriculum offered, and the methodsof assessing whether students are meeting educational goals, to include at a minimum participationin the state's public education statewide assessment program and end-of-level core curriculumassessments;(e)  admission and dismissal procedures, including suspension procedures;(f)  procedures to review complaints of parents regarding the operation of the school;(g)  the opportunity for parental involvement at the school;(h)  how the school will provide adequate liability and other appropriate insurance for theschool, its governing body, and its employees, including its ability to participate in the state's riskmanagement insurance program;(i)  the proposed school calendar, including the length of the school day and school year;(j)  whether any agreements have been entered into or plans developed with school districtsregarding participation of charter school students in extracurricular activities within the schooldistricts;(k)  the physical facility in which the school will be located, if known at the time ofapplication, and its address;(l)  the qualifications to be required of the teachers; and(m)  in the case of an existing public school converting to charter status, alternativearrangements for current students who choose not to attend the charter school and for currentteachers who choose not to teach at the school after its conversion to charter status.(4) A charter is for three years and may be modified during the three-year term by mutualagreement of the state board and the governing body of the school.    53A-1a-509.(1)  The governing body of a charter school shall make annual progress reports to the StateBoard of Education and the Legislature through its Education Interim Committee.(2)  The report shall contain at least the following information:(a)  the school's progress toward achieving its goals as set out in the charter; and(b)  financial records of the school, including revenues, expenditures, and employee salaryand benefit levels.    53A-1a-510.(1)  The State Board of Education may terminate a school's charter during the term of thecharter for any of the following reasons:(a)  failure of the school to meet the requirements for student performance stated in thecharter;(b)  failure to meet generally accepted standards of fiscal management;(c)  violation of law; or(d)  other good cause shown.(2) (a)  The board shall notify the governing body of the school of the proposed action inwriting, state the grounds for the action, and stipulate that the governing body may request aninformal hearing before the board.(b)  The board shall conduct the hearing within 30 days after receiving a written requestunder Subsection (2)(a).(3) (a)  The board may terminate a charter immediately if good cause has been shown orif the health, safety, or welfare of the students at the school is threatened.(b)  If a charter is terminated under Subsection (3)(a), the school district in which theschool is located may assume operation of the school.(4) (a)  If a charter is terminated, a student who attended the school may apply to and shallbe enrolled in another public school under the enrollment provisions of Title 53A, Chapter 2, Part2, subject to space availability.(b)  Normal application deadlines shall be disregarded under Subsection (4)(a).    53A-1a-511.(1)  A charter school shall operate in accordance with its charter and is subject to Title 53Aand other state laws applicable to public schools, except as otherwise provided in this part.(2) (a)  A charter school may apply to the State Board of Education for a waiver of anystate board rule that inhibits or hinders the charter school from accomplishing the mission oreducational goals set out in its charter.(b)  The state board shall grant the waiver, unless:(i)  the waiver would cause the school to be in violation of state or federal law; or(ii)  the waiver would threaten the health, safety, or welfare of students at the school.    53A-11-512.(1)  A charter school shall select its own employees.(2)  The school's governing body shall determine the level of compensation and all termsand conditions of employment, except as otherwise provided in this part.(3) (a)  To accommodate differentiated staffing and better meet student needs, a charterschool, under rules adopted by the State Board of Education, shall employ teachers who:(i)  are certificated; or(ii)  on the basis of demonstrated competency, would qualify to teach under alternativecertification or authorization programs.(b)  The school's governing body shall disclose the qualifications of its teachers to theparents of its students.(4) (a)  An employee of a school district may request a leave of absence in order to workin a charter school upon approval of the local school board.(b)  While on leave, the employee may retain seniority accrued in the school district andmay continue to be covered by the benefit program of the district if the charter school and thedistrict mutually agree.    53A-1a-513.(1) (a)  A student enrolled in a charter school is considered a resident student of the schooldistrict in which the school is located for purposes of state funding, including, but not limited to,moneys the student would generate as a result of qualifying for such programs as specialeducation, students at risk, and gifted and talented.(b) (i)  The State Board of Education shall adopt rules to provide:(A)  that the school district in which a charter school student resides shall pay to the schooldistrict in which the charter school is located 1/2 of the amount by which the resident district's perstudent expenditure exceeds the value of the state funding under Subsection (1)(a); and(B)  for the distribution of moneys to charter schools under this section.(ii)  The rules adopted pursuant to Subsection (b)(i)(A) that require 1/2 rather than all ofthe amount take into account state school funding laws that require certain local moneys to remainwithin the resident district.(c)  If a charter school is providing eligible programs or services to eligible students fundedby federal moneys, any eligible student enrolled in a charter school in the school district shallreceive federal moneys for the same level of service provided students in the schools operated bythe local school board.(2) (a)  The board shall also adopt rules relating to the transportation of students to andfrom charter schools, taking into account Sections 53A-2-210 and 53A-17a-127.(b)  The governing body of the charter school may provide transportation through anagreement or contract with the local school board, a private provider, or with parents.(3) (a)  The State Superintendent of Public Instruction may allocate grants for start-up coststo eligible charter school applicants from monies appropriated for the implementation of this act.(b)  Applications for the grants shall be filed on a form determined by the statesuperintendent and in conjunction with the application for a charter.(c)  The amount of a grant may vary based upon the size, scope, and special circumstancesof the charter school.(d)  The governing board of the charter school shall use the grant to meet the expenses ofthe school as established in the school's charter.(4) (a)  A charter school may receive, hold, manage and use any devise, bequest, grant,endowment, gift, or donation of any property made to the school for any of the purposes of thispart.(b)  It is unlawful for any person affiliated with a charter school to demand or request anygift, donation, or contribution from a parent, teacher, employee, or other person affiliated with thecharter school as a condition for employment or enrollment at the school or continued attendanceat the school.(5) (a)  The State Office of Education shall publish and make available to charter schoolapplicants a list of vacant and unused portions of buildings that are owned by the state or by schooldistricts in the state and that may be suitable for the operation of a charter school.(b)  The list shall include the address and owner of each building and a short descriptionof the building.(c)  Nothing in this Subsection (5) requires the owner of a building on the list to sell orlease the building or a portion of the building to a charter school.    53A-1a-514.(1)  An employee of a charter school is a public employee and the governing body is apublic employer in the same manner as a local school board for purposes of tort liability.(2)  The governing body of a charter school and the school are solely liable for anydamages resulting from a legal challenge involving the operation of the school.(1)  There is appropriated for fiscal year 1998-99, $1,500,000 to the State Board ofEducation to fund that component of the Schools for the 21st Century established under Title 53A,Chapter 1a, Part 4.    (2)  It is the intent of the Legislature that this appropriation be ongoing.    (3)  It is also the intent of the Legislature that the appropriation currently used to fund theCentennial Schools Program shall be a revenue source for the Schools for the 21st CenturyProgram in fiscal years 1999 and 2000 as the Centennial Schools Program is phased out and theSchools for the 21st Century Program is phased in.    (4)  There is appropriated for fiscal year 1998-99, $500,000 to the State Board of Educationto fund the Charter Schools component established under Title 53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5.This act takes effect on July 1,1998.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WP 6.1 HB0145.ZIP 19,739 Bytes
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 145





1     SCHOOLS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY




2    1998 GENERAL SESSION


3    STATE OF UTAH


4     Sponsor:  Brian R. Allen


5    AN ACT RELATING TO PUBLIC EDUCATION; PROVIDING FOR A THREE-YEAR

6    SCHOOLS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY PROGRAM OF CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT;

7    PROVIDING REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PROGRAM; REQUIRING

8    AN ACTION PLAN; PROVIDING FOR THE SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS;

9    PROVIDING FOR FUNDING AND INCENTIVE AWARDS; PROVIDING A $2,000,000

10    APPROPRIATION; PROVIDING FOR THE CREATION OF UP TO EIGHT CHARTER

11    SCHOOLS AS A COMPONENT OF SCHOOLS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY; PROVIDING

12    FOR A CHARTERING PROCESS; DESIGNATING THE STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION

13    AS THE SPONSOR OF CHARTER SCHOOLS; PROVIDING REQUIREMENTS FOR

14    CHARTER SCHOOLS; IDENTIFYING ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE SCHOOL'S

15    CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR AN ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT; PROVIDING FOR

16    TERMINATION OF A CHARTER; PROVIDING FOR EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS;

17    AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

18    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

19    ENACTS:

20         53A-1a-401, Utah Code Annotated 1953

21         53A-1a-402, Utah Code Annotated 1953

22         53A-1a-403, Utah Code Annotated 1953

23         53A-1a-404, Utah Code Annotated 1953

24         53A-1a-501, Utah Code Annotated 1953

25         53A-1a-502, Utah Code Annotated 1953

26         53A-1a-503, Utah Code Annotated 1953

27         53A-1a-504, Utah Code Annotated 1953


1         53A-1a-505, Utah Code Annotated 1953

2         53A-1a-506, Utah Code Annotated 1953

3         53A-1a-507, Utah Code Annotated 1953

4         53A-1a-508, Utah Code Annotated 1953

5         53A-1a-509, Utah Code Annotated 1953

6         53A-1a-510, Utah Code Annotated 1953

7         53A-1a-511, Utah Code Annotated 1953

8         53A-1a-512, Utah Code Annotated 1953

9         53A-1a-513, Utah Code Annotated 1953

10         53A-1a-514, Utah Code Annotated 1953

11    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

12        Section 1.  Section  53A-1a-401 is enacted to read:

13     Part 4.  Schools for the 21st Century


14         53A-1a-401.  Purpose.

15        (1)  The Legislature recognizes that public schools leading educational reform into the 21st

16    Century will be schools that aggressively pursue the goal of continuous improvement and

17    customize their education programs to address individual needs of students, and that the state's

18    Centennial and Modified Centennial Schools Programs have established a strong foundation for

19    the emergence of just such a program.

20        (2)  The Legislature further recognizes that financial incentives can help stimulate and

21    provide opportunities for public schools to discover and implement creative solutions to each

22    school's unique challenges in helping to prepare individual students to compete and succeed in

23    what has become a global society.

24        Section 2.  Section  53A-1a-402 is enacted to read:

25         53A-1a-402.  Establishment of Schools for the 21st Century Program -- Qualifications

26     for participation.

27        (1)  There is established a Schools for the 21st Century Program to allow selected public

28    schools to commit to a challenging course of continuous improvement.

29        (2)  Participation in the program is on a voluntary basis and subject to the following

30    requirements:

31        (a)  development and implementation of a three-year action plan designed to improve

- 2 -


1    student achievement in targeted academic areas;

2        (b)  development and implementation of an accountability program to measure student

3    achievement against targets established in the action plan referred to in Subsection (2)(a);

4        (c)  development and implementation of a plan to effectively implement technology into

5    the curriculum in such a way that students have the opportunity to learn using that technology;

6        (d)  except as otherwise provided in this part, the qualification requirements listed in

7    Section 53A-1a-302 for a centennial school and the school director requirements listed in

8    Subsection 53A-1a-303.5(4) for a modified centennial school; and

9        (e)  if the applicant is a centennial or modified centennial school, it may not receive

10    centennial or modified centennial moneys if selected to participate in this program.

11        (3) (a)  The school's directors shall develop the action plan required under Subsection

12    (2)(a).

13        (b)  The plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:

14        (i)  identification of three areas of academic performance in which the school shall show

15    improvement  in student achievement during the three-year program;

16        (ii)  priority given to improvement in reading, writing, and mathematics, unless the school

17    documents a need for improvement in another academic area after having given due consideration

18    to reading, writing, and mathematics skills;

19        (iii)  identification of and proposed actions to improve at least two conditions related to

20    teaching and learning, which could include, but not be limited to, conditions such as school safety,

21    increasing the number of parents participating in student education plans or student education -

22    occupation plans, reducing truancy or drop out rates, or enhancing professional development as

23    related to the action plan;

24        (iv)  identification of the uses of all improvement funds and programs at the school, both

25    state and federal, and, where appropriate, relating these funds and programs to the action plan;

26        (v)  the development and plans for implementation of meaningful student learning goals

27    by teachers, parents, and students;

28        (vi)  identification of a means of measuring by objective and quantifiable methods the

29    extent to which the plan has been achieved; and

30        (vii)  provisions for the professional development of educators at the school focused on

31    improving student performance, for seeking technical assistance in developing and implementing

- 3 -


1    the plan, and for identifying effective models of school improvement.

2        Section 3.  Section  53A-1a-403 is enacted to read:

3         53A-1a-403.  Selection of schools -- Funding -- Incentive awards.

4        (1)  The State Board of Education, in collaboration with the governor's office, shall develop

5    and implement application procedures and a process for the selection of up to 60 schools each year

6    over a three-year period for participation in the Schools for the 21st Century Program authorized

7    under this part.

8        (2)  Selected schools shall participate in the program and be eligible for funding for three

9    consecutive years.

10        (3) (a)  The Legislature shall provide an annual appropriation to fund the program.

11        (b)  The board, through the State Office of Education, shall administer and distribute the

12    appropriation in the following manner:

13        (i)  each school selected as a first-year participant shall receive a base amount of between

14    $5,000 to $10,000 depending on the size of the school;

15        (ii)  each first-year school shall also receive an additional per student allocation of up to

16    $27, based upon the number of students as of October 1 in the program as related to the amount

17    of appropriation available for distribution after the base amount has been calculated for all the

18    schools participating on a first-year basis under Subsection (3)(b)(i);

19        (iii)  each school in its second year shall receive $9 per student and be eligible to receive

20    an incentive award based upon its achievement of second-year goals; and

21        (iv)  each school in its third year shall be eligible to receive major incentive awards based

22    upon achievement of third-year goals.

23        (c) (i)  The board shall determine the amount of incentive award money given to schools

24    under Subsections (3)(b)(iii) and (iv) on the basis of goal attainment and student enrollment, with

25    a minimum threshold of 50% attainment of goals for second-year schools and a minimum

26    threshold of 60% attainment for third-year schools in order to receive a portion of the award

27    money.

28        (ii)  It is estimated that the incentive award money generated for successful second-year

29    schools would be up to $500 per certificated professional staff member at each participating school

30    and increase to up to $2,000 per certificated professional staff member for each successful

31    third-year school.

- 4 -


1        (d) (i)  First-year schools shall use their allocations for program development,

2    implementation, and evaluation, technical assistance, and teacher development, including the

3    establishment of performance goals and identification of a system of measurement and evaluation.

4        (ii) (A)  Second-year schools shall use their per student allocations for continuing program

5    operation, modification, and evaluation.

6        (B)  If participating schools meet the threshold established in Subsection(3)(c)(i), based

7    upon documentation of the school's progress provided to the board by the school, the appropriate

8    share of incentive award money shall be distributed each year at the school level as determined by

9    the school directors.

10        (C)  The distribution may include giving award shares to the school as a whole or to

11    individual programs at the school or to professional staff members or any combination of these

12    options.

13        (iii)  Third-year schools shall receive all appropriate incentive moneys under the program

14    based on year-end evaluation of goal attainment and shall distribute it on the same basis as

15    second-year schools distribute incentive award money under Subsections (3)(d)(ii)(B) and (C).

16        Section 4.  Section  53A-1a-404 is enacted to read:

17         53A-1a-404.  Accountability plans -- Reporting and monitoring of program.

18        (1)  Each participant school under this part shall develop an accountability plan to measure

19    student achievement against targets established by the school.

20        (2)  The accountability plan shall document the progress towards attaining identified

21    performance goals at the school and report the results annually.

22        (3) (a)  The accountability plan shall include the following:

23        (i)  documentation of present student achievement levels;

24        (ii)  norm-referenced tests which can reasonably assess the performance of students in the

25    areas the school has targeted for improvement, including the Stanford Achievement Test required

26    in grades 5, 8, and 11, where applicable;

27        (iii)  criterion-referenced tests which can reasonably assess the performance of students in

28    the areas the school has targeted for improvement, to include the state core assessments; and

29        (iv)  documentation of progress toward improving conditions for teaching and learning.

30        (b)  The plan may include additional measurements of student performance such as writing

31    assessments or student portfolios.

- 5 -


1        (4) (a)  The state board shall closely monitor the activities of each school participating in

2    the program and provide assistance if requested by the school's directors.

3        (b)  The state board, in collaboration with the school directors and the local school board

4    of the district in which the charter school is located, shall require an annual evaluation on each

5    school's achievement of its performance goals established pursuant to this part and provide a

6    summary report on the evaluations to the Legislature and the governor.

7        Section 5.  Section  53A-1a-501 is enacted to read:

8     Part 5.   Charter Schools


9         53A-1a-501.  Short title.

10        This part is known as "The Utah Charter Schools Act."

11        Section 6.  Section  53A-1a-502 is enacted to read:

12         53A-1a-502.  Authorization - Creation of charter schools.

13        (1)  As a second part of the Schools for the 21st Century initiative the Legislature

14    authorizes the creation of up to eight charter schools.

15        (2)  Charter schools are considered to be part of the state's public education system.

16        (3)  A charter school may be established by creating a new school or converting an existing

17    public school to charter status.

18        Section 7.  Section  53A-1a-503 is enacted to read:

19         53A-1a-503.  Purpose.

20        The purpose of charter schools is to:

21        (1)  improve student learning;

22        (2)  encourage the use of different and innovative teaching methods;

23        (3)  create new professional opportunities for educators that will allow them to actively

24    participate in designing and implementing the learning program at the school;

25        (4)  increase choice of learning opportunities for students;

26        (5)  establish new models of public schools and a new form of accountability for schools

27    that emphasizes the measurement of learning outcomes and the creation of innovative

28    measurement tools; and

29        (6)  provide opportunities for greater parental involvement in management decisions at the

30    school level.

31        Section 8.  Section  53A-1a-504 is enacted to read:

- 6 -


1         53A-1-504.  Proposal.

2        (1)  A proposal to establish a charter school may be made by an individual or groups of

3    individuals, including teachers and parents or guardians of students who will attend the school, or

4    a legal entity organized under the laws of this state.

5        (2) (a)  The principal, teachers, or parents of students at an existing public school may

6    submit a proposal to convert the school or a portion of the school to charter status.

7        (b) (i)  At least two-thirds of the certificated educators employed at the school and at least

8    two-thirds of the parents or guardians of students enrolled at the school must have signed a petition

9    approving the proposal prior to its submission to the sponsoring entity if the entire school is

10    applying for charter status.

11        (ii)  The percentage is reduced to a simple majority if the conversion is for only a portion

12    of the school.

13        (3)  A parochial school or home school is not eligible for charter school status.

14        Section 9.  Section  53A-1a-505 is enacted to read:

15         53A-1-505.  Sponsors of charter schools -- Application process.

16        (1)  An applicant for a charter school shall seek sponsorship of its charter from the State

17    Board of Education.

18        (2) (a)  The State Board of Education shall review and, by majority vote, either approve

19    or deny the application within 60 days after the application is received by the board.

20        (b) (i)  The applicant shall also provide a copy of the application to the local school board

21    of the school district in which the proposed charter school shall be located at the same time it files

22    its application with the state board.

23        (ii)  The local board may review the application and may offer suggestions or

24    recommendations to the applicant or the state board prior to its acting on the application.

25        (iii)  The state board shall give due consideration to suggestions or recommendations made

26    by the local school board under Subsection (2)(b)(ii).

27        (c)  The state board's action under Subsection (2)(a) is final action subject to judicial

28    review.

29        (3) (a)  The applicant and the state board shall set forth the terms and conditions for the

30    operation of the charter school in a written contractual agreement.

31        (b)  The contract is the school's charter.

- 7 -


1        (4)  The State Office of Education and the school district in which the school is to be

2    located may provide technical assistance to an applicant upon written request.

3        Section 10.  Section  53A-1a-506 is enacted to read:

4         53A-1a-506.  Eligible students.

5        (1)  All resident students of the state qualify for admission to a charter school, subject to

6    the limitations set forth in this section.

7        (2) (a)  A charter school shall enroll an eligible student who submits a timely application,

8    unless the number of applications exceeds the capacity of a program, class, grade level, or the

9    school.

10        (b) (i)  If the number of applications exceeds the capacity of a program, class, grade level,

11    or the school, then students shall be selected on a random basis except that the school may give

12    preference to a student of a parent who has actively participated in the development of the school

13    and to siblings of students presently enrolled in the school, not to exceed 30% of the student

14    population for preferential selection.

15        (ii)  The school may give preference to students who reside within the school district in

16    which the school is located.

17        (c)  When a public school converts to charter status, the school shall give enrollment

18    preference to students who would have otherwise attended it as a regular public school.

19        (3)  A charter school may not discriminate in its admission policies or practices on the

20    same basis as other public schools may not discriminate in their admission policies and practices.

21        Section 11.  Section  53A-1a-507 is enacted to read:

22         53A-1a-507.  Requirements for charter schools.

23        (1)  A charter school shall be nonsectarian in its programs, admission policies, employment

24    practices, and operations.

25        (2)  A charter school may not charge tuition or fees, except those fees normally charged

26    by other public schools.

27        (3)  A charter school shall meet all applicable state and local health, safety, and civil rights

28    requirements.

29        (4) (a)  A charter school shall make the same annual reports required of other public

30    schools under Title 53A, including an annual financial audit report.

31        (b)  The school shall make its reports directly to the State Board of Education and provide

- 8 -


1    a copy to the local school board of the district in which the school is located.

2        (5)  A charter school shall be accountable to the state board for performance as provided

3    in Section 53A-1a-509.

4        (6)  A charter school may not advocate unlawful behavior.

5        Section 12.  Section  53A-1a-508 is enacted to read:

6         53A-1a-508.  Content of a charter -- Term -- Renewal.

7        (1)  The major issues involving the operation of a charter school shall be considered in

8    advance by the applicant for a charter school and written into the school's charter.

9        (2)  The governing body of the charter school and the State Board of Education shall sign

10    the charter.

11        (3)  The charter shall address:

12        (a)  the age or grade levels to be served by the school;

13        (b)  the governance structure of the charter school;

14        (c)  the financial plan for the school and the provisions which will be made for auditing the

15    school under Subsection 53A-1a-507(4)(a);

16        (d)  the mission and education goals of the school, the curriculum offered, and the methods

17    of assessing whether students are meeting educational goals, to include at a minimum participation

18    in the state's public education statewide assessment program and end-of-level core curriculum

19    assessments;

20        (e)  admission and dismissal procedures, including suspension procedures;

21        (f)  procedures to review complaints of parents regarding the operation of the school;

22        (g)  the opportunity for parental involvement at the school;

23        (h)  how the school will provide adequate liability and other appropriate insurance for the

24    school, its governing body, and its employees, including its ability to participate in the state's risk

25    management insurance program;

26        (i)  the proposed school calendar, including the length of the school day and school year;

27        (j)  whether any agreements have been entered into or plans developed with school districts

28    regarding participation of charter school students in extracurricular activities within the school

29    districts;

30        (k)  the physical facility in which the school will be located, if known at the time of

31    application, and its address;

- 9 -


1        (l)  the qualifications to be required of the teachers; and

2        (m)  in the case of an existing public school converting to charter status, alternative

3    arrangements for current students who choose not to attend the charter school and for current

4    teachers who choose not to teach at the school after its conversion to charter status.

5        (4) A charter is for three years and may be modified during the three-year term by mutual

6    agreement of the state board and the governing body of the school.

7        Section 13.  Section  53A-1a-509 is enacted to read:

8         53A-1a-509.  Accountability report.

9        (1)  The governing body of a charter school shall make annual progress reports to the State

10    Board of Education and the Legislature through its Education Interim Committee.

11        (2)  The report shall contain at least the following information:

12        (a)  the school's progress toward achieving its goals as set out in the charter; and

13        (b)  financial records of the school, including revenues, expenditures, and employee salary

14    and benefit levels.

15        Section 14.  Section  53A-1a-510 is enacted to read:

16         53A-1a-510.  Termination or nonrenewal of a charter.

17        (1)  The State Board of Education may terminate a school's charter during the term of the

18    charter for any of the following reasons:

19        (a)  failure of the school to meet the requirements for student performance stated in the

20    charter;

21        (b)  failure to meet generally accepted standards of fiscal management;

22        (c)  violation of law; or

23        (d)  other good cause shown.

24        (2) (a)  The board shall notify the governing body of the school of the proposed action in

25    writing, state the grounds for the action, and stipulate that the governing body may request an

26    informal hearing before the board.

27        (b)  The board shall conduct the hearing within 30 days after receiving a written request

28    under Subsection (2)(a).

29        (3) (a)  The board may terminate a charter immediately if good cause has been shown or

30    if the health, safety, or welfare of the students at the school is threatened.

31        (b)  If a charter is terminated under Subsection (3)(a), the school district in which the

- 10 -


1    school is located may assume operation of the school.

2        (4) (a)  If a charter is terminated, a student who attended the school may apply to and shall

3    be enrolled in another public school under the enrollment provisions of Title 53A, Chapter 2, Part

4    2, subject to space availability.

5        (b)  Normal application deadlines shall be disregarded under Subsection (4)(a).

6        Section 15.  Section  53A-1a-511 is enacted to read:

7         53A-1a-511.  Waivers from state board rules.

8        (1)  A charter school shall operate in accordance with its charter and is subject to Title 53A

9    and other state laws applicable to public schools, except as otherwise provided in this part.

10        (2) (a)  A charter school may apply to the State Board of Education for a waiver of any

11    state board rule that inhibits or hinders the charter school from accomplishing the mission or

12    educational goals set out in its charter.

13        (b)  The state board shall grant the waiver, unless:

14        (i)  the waiver would cause the school to be in violation of state or federal law; or

15        (ii)  the waiver would threaten the health, safety, or welfare of students at the school.

16        Section 16.  Section  53A-1a-512 is enacted to read:

17         53A-11-512.  Employees of charter schools.

18        (1)  A charter school shall select its own employees.

19        (2)  The school's governing body shall determine the level of compensation and all terms

20    and conditions of employment, except as otherwise provided in this part.

21        (3) (a)  To accommodate differentiated staffing and better meet student needs, a charter

22    school, under rules adopted by the State Board of Education, shall employ teachers who:

23        (i)  are certificated; or

24        (ii)  on the basis of demonstrated competency, would qualify to teach under alternative

25    certification or authorization programs.

26        (b)  The school's governing body shall disclose the qualifications of its teachers to the

27    parents of its students.

28        (4) (a)  An employee of a school district may request a leave of absence in order to work

29    in a charter school upon approval of the local school board.

30        (b)  While on leave, the employee may retain seniority accrued in the school district and

31    may continue to be covered by the benefit program of the district if the charter school and the

- 11 -


1    district mutually agree.

2        Section 17.  Section  53A-1a-513 is enacted to read:

3         53A-1a-513.  Funding for charter schools.

4        (1) (a)  A student enrolled in a charter school is considered a resident student of the school

5    district in which the school is located for purposes of state funding, including, but not limited to,

6    moneys the student would generate as a result of qualifying for such programs as special

7    education, students at risk, and gifted and talented.

8        (b) (i)  The State Board of Education shall adopt rules to provide:

9        (A)  that the school district in which a charter school student resides shall pay to the school

10    district in which the charter school is located 1/2 of the amount by which the resident district's per

11    student expenditure exceeds the value of the state funding under Subsection (1)(a); and

12        (B)  for the distribution of moneys to charter schools under this section.

13        (ii)  The rules adopted pursuant to Subsection (b)(i)(A) that require 1/2 rather than all of

14    the amount take into account state school funding laws that require certain local moneys to remain

15    within the resident district.

16        (c)  If a charter school is providing eligible programs or services to eligible students funded

17    by federal moneys, any eligible student enrolled in a charter school in the school district shall

18    receive federal moneys for the same level of service provided students in the schools operated by

19    the local school board.

20        (2) (a)  The board shall also adopt rules relating to the transportation of students to and

21    from charter schools, taking into account Sections 53A-2-210 and 53A-17a-127.

22        (b)  The governing body of the charter school may provide transportation through an

23    agreement or contract with the local school board, a private provider, or with parents.

24        (3) (a)  The State Superintendent of Public Instruction may allocate grants for start-up costs

25    to eligible charter school applicants from monies appropriated for the implementation of this act.

26        (b)  Applications for the grants shall be filed on a form determined by the state

27    superintendent and in conjunction with the application for a charter.

28        (c)  The amount of a grant may vary based upon the size, scope, and special circumstances

29    of the charter school.

30        (d)  The governing board of the charter school shall use the grant to meet the expenses of

31    the school as established in the school's charter.

- 12 -


1        (4) (a)  A charter school may receive, hold, manage and use any devise, bequest, grant,

2    endowment, gift, or donation of any property made to the school for any of the purposes of this

3    part.

4        (b)  It is unlawful for any person affiliated with a charter school to demand or request any

5    gift, donation, or contribution from a parent, teacher, employee, or other person affiliated with the

6    charter school as a condition for employment or enrollment at the school or continued attendance

7    at the school.

8        (5) (a)  The State Office of Education shall publish and make available to charter school

9    applicants a list of vacant and unused portions of buildings that are owned by the state or by school

10    districts in the state and that may be suitable for the operation of a charter school.

11        (b)  The list shall include the address and owner of each building and a short description

12    of the building.

13        (c)  Nothing in this Subsection (5) requires the owner of a building on the list to sell or

14    lease the building or a portion of the building to a charter school.

15        Section 18.  Section  53A-1a-514 is enacted to read:

16         53A-1a-514.  Tort liability.

17        (1)  An employee of a charter school is a public employee and the governing body is a

18    public employer in the same manner as a local school board for purposes of tort liability.

19        (2)  The governing body of a charter school and the school are solely liable for any

20    damages resulting from a legal challenge involving the operation of the school.

21        Section 19.   Appropriation.

22        (1)  There is appropriated for fiscal year 1998-99, $1,500,000 to the State Board of

23    Education to fund that component of the Schools for the 21st Century established under Title 53A,

24    Chapter 1a, Part 4.

25        (2)  It is the intent of the Legislature that this appropriation be ongoing.

26        (3)  It is also the intent of the Legislature that the appropriation currently used to fund the

27    Centennial Schools Program shall be a revenue source for the Schools for the 21st Century

28    Program in fiscal years 1999 and 2000 as the Centennial Schools Program is phased out and the

29    Schools for the 21st Century Program is phased in.

30        (4)  There is appropriated for fiscal year 1998-99, $500,000 to the State Board of Education

31    to fund the Charter Schools component established under Title 53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5.

- 13 -


1        Section 20.   Effective date.

2        This act takes effect on July 1,1998.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   2-10-98  10:20 AM


A limited legal review of this bill raises no obvious constitutional or statutory concerns.

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel


- 14 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







