Sponsors: []Modifications: orhave any video gaming device,or have any video gaming device,or have any videogaming device,(8)  A single event permittee may not engage in or allow any form of gambling, or haveany video gaming device as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling,on the premises serviced by the single event permittee., or have any video gaming device,(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)  "Video gaming device" means anything that possesses all of the following:(a)  short play time programming, which includes a constant and relatively short durationof player clock-time, which is not extended or affected by the skill of a player;(b)  meter, tracking, or recording mechanisms, which are intended to record or track:(i)  any money or credits remaining; or(ii)  any money, credits, or winning plays paid out; and(c)  multiple play programming or settings that allow a player the option of risking coinsor credits on any play.;;or(c)  allows the use of any video gaming device that is:(i)  in any business establishment or public place; and(ii)  accessible for use by any person.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WP 6.1 HB0258.ZIP 34,175 Bytes
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 258









1     GAMBLING AMENDMENTS




2    1998 GENERAL SESSION


3    STATE OF UTAH


4     Sponsor: Blake D. Chard


5    AN ACT RELATING TO THE CRIMINAL CODE; AMENDING THE OFFENSE OF

6    GAMBLING TO INCLUDE VIDEO GAMING DEVICES; AND AMENDING

7    OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.

8    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

9    AMENDS:

10         32A-4-106, as last amended by Chapter 40, Laws of Utah 1997

11         32A-4-206, as last amended by Chapter 95, Laws of Utah 1994

12         32A-5-107, as last amended by Chapter 95, Laws of Utah 1994

13         32A-7-106, as last amended by Chapters 7 and 10, Laws of Utah 1993

14         32A-10-206, as last amended by Chapter 95, Laws of Utah 1994

15         76-10-1101, as enacted by Chapter 196, Laws of Utah 1973

16         76-10-1102, as enacted by Chapter 196, Laws of Utah 1973

17    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

18        Section 1.  Section  32A-4-106 is amended to read:

19         32A-4-106.  Operational restrictions.

20        Each person granted a restaurant liquor license and the employees and management

21    personnel of the restaurant shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.  Failure

22    to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of the license or other disciplinary action taken

23    against individual employees or management personnel.

24        (1) (a)  Liquor may not be purchased by a restaurant liquor licensee except from state stores

25    or package agencies.

26        (b)  Liquor purchased may be transported by the licensee from the place of purchase to the

27    licensed premises.


1        (c)  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with rules established by the

2    commission.

3        (2) A restaurant liquor licensee may not sell or provide any primary liquor except in one

4    ounce quantities dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the

5    department in accordance with commission rules adopted under this title, except that:

6        (a)  liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used

7    as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage subject to the following restrictions:

8        (i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the purchase of

9    a primary liquor;

10        (ii)  the secondary ingredient is not the only liquor in the beverage;

11        (iii)  the licensee shall designate a location where flavorings are stored on the floor plan

12    provided to the department; and

13        (iv)  all flavoring containers shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled "flavorings";

14        (b)  liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used

15    as a flavoring on desserts and in the preparation of flaming food dishes, drinks, and desserts;

16        (c)  wine may be served by the glass in quantities not exceeding five ounces per glass; and

17        (d)  heavy beer may be served in original containers not exceeding one liter.

18        (3) (a)  Restaurants licensed to sell liquor may sell beer in any size container not exceeding

19    two liters, and on draft for on-premise consumption without obtaining a separate on-premise beer

20    retailer license from the commission.

21        (b)  Restaurants licensed under this chapter that sell beer pursuant to Subsection (3)(a) shall

22    comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter 10, Beer Retailer Licenses, that

23    apply to on-premise beer retailers except when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less

24    restrictive than the operational restrictions under this chapter.

25        (c)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10, Beer Retailer

26    Licenses, required by Subsection (3)(b) may result in a suspension or revocation of the restaurant's:

27        (i)  state liquor license; and

28        (ii)  alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.

29        (4)  Wine may be served in accordance with commission rule in containers not exceeding

30    750 ml.

31        (5) (a)  Liquor may not be stored or sold in any place other than as designated in the

- 2 -


1    licensee's application, unless the licensee first applies for and receives approval from the

2    department for a change of location within the restaurant.

3        (b)  A patron may only make alcoholic beverage purchases in the restaurant from a server

4    designated and trained by the licensee.

5        (c)  Any alcoholic beverage may only be consumed at the patron's table.

6        (d)  Liquor may not be stored where it is visible to patrons of the restaurant.

7        (6) (a)  Alcoholic beverages may not be dispensed directly to a patron from the storage

8    area.

9        (b)  Alcoholic beverages shall be delivered by a server to the patron.

10        (7)  The liquor storage area shall remain locked at all times other than those hours and days

11    when liquor sales are authorized by law.

12        (8) (a)  Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale at a restaurant during the following days

13    or hours:

14        (i)  on the day of any regular general election, regular primary election, or statewide special

15    election until after the polls are closed;

16        (ii)  on the day of any municipal, special district, or school election, but only:

17        (A)  within the boundaries of the municipality, special district, or school district; and

18        (B)  if closure is required by local ordinance; and

19        (iii)  on any other day after 12 midnight and before 12 noon.

20        (b)  The hours of beer sales are those specified in Chapter 10, Beer Retailer Licenses, for

21    on-premise beer licensees.

22        (9)  Alcoholic beverages may not be sold except in connection with an order for food

23    prepared, sold, and served at the restaurant.

24        (10)  Alcoholic beverages may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to any:

25        (a)  minor;

26        (b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously drunk;

27        (c)  known habitual drunkard; or

28        (d)  known interdicted person.

29        (11) (a)  Liquor may not be sold except at prices fixed by the commission.

30        (b)  Mixed drinks and wine may not be sold at discount prices on any date or at any time.

31        (12) Each restaurant patron may have only one alcoholic beverage at a time before the

- 3 -


1    patron on the patron's table.

2        (13) No more than one ounce of primary liquor may be served to a patron at a time, except:

3        (a)  wine as provided in Subsection (2)(c); and

4        (b)  heavy beer as provided in Subsection (2)(d).

5        (14)  Alcoholic beverages may not be purchased by the licensee, or any employee or agent

6    of the licensee, for patrons of the restaurant.

7        (15)  Alcoholic beverages purchased in a restaurant may not be served or consumed at any

8    location where they are stored or dispensed.

9        (16) (a)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the restaurant

10    as authorized by commission rule for wine purchased at the restaurant or carried in by a patron.

11        (b)  If wine is carried in by a patron, the patron shall deliver the wine to a server or other

12    representative of the licensee upon entering the licensee premises.

13        (17) (a) A person may not bring onto the premises of a restaurant liquor licensee any

14    alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption, except a person may bring, subject to the

15    discretion of the licensee, cork-finished wine onto the premises of any restaurant liquor licensee

16    and consume wine pursuant to Subsection (16).

17        (b) A restaurant, whether licensed under this title or unlicensed, or its officers, managers,

18    employees, or agents may not allow:

19        (i)  a person to bring onto the restaurant premises any alcoholic beverage for on-premise

20    consumption; or

21        (ii)  consumption of any such alcoholic beverage on its premises, except cork-finished wine

22    under Subsection (17)(a).

23        (c) If a restaurant licensee, or any of its officers, managers, employees, or agents violates

24    this Subsection (17):

25        (i)  the commission may immediately suspend or revoke the restaurant's liquor license and

26    the restaurant licensee is subject to possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12; and

27        (ii)  the local authority may immediately suspend or revoke the restaurant's:

28        (A)  local liquor license;

29        (B)  local consent under Subsection 32A-4-102(1)[(c)]; or

30        (C)  local business license.

31        (18)  Alcoholic beverages purchased from the restaurant may not be removed from the

- 4 -


1    restaurant premises.

2        (19) (a)  Minors may not be employed by a restaurant licensee to sell or dispense alcoholic

3    beverages.

4        (b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (19)(a), a minor may be employed to enter the sale at a

5    cash register or other sales recording device.

6        (20)  An employee of a restaurant liquor licensee, while on duty, may not:

7        (a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or

8        (b)  be under the influence of alcoholic beverages.

9        (21) (a)  Advertising or other reference to the sale of liquor and wine is not allowed on a

10    food menu except that a statement of availability of a liquor and wine menu on request, the content

11    and form of which is approved by the department, may be attached to or carried on a food menu. 

12    The context of both food and liquor and wine menus may not in any manner attempt to promote

13    or increase the sale of alcoholic beverages.

14        (b)  A server, employee, or agent of a licensee may not draw attention to the availability

15    of alcoholic beverages for sale, unless a patron or guest first inquires about it.

16        (c)  Any set-up charge, service charge, chilling fee, or any other charge or fee made in

17    connection with the sale, service, or consumption of liquor may be stated in food or alcoholic

18    beverage menus.

19        (22)  Each restaurant liquor licensee shall display in a prominent place in the restaurant:

20        (a)  the liquor license that is issued by the department;

21        (b)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through its calibrated

22    metered dispensing system; and

23        (c)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: The consumption of alcoholic beverages

24    purchased in this establishment may be hazardous to your health and the safety of others."

25        (23)  The following acts or conduct in a restaurant licensed under this chapter are

26    considered contrary to the public welfare and morals, and are prohibited upon the premises:

27        (a)  employing or using any person in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while the

28    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing that exposes to view any portion of the female

29    breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks,

30    vulva, or genitals;

31        (b)  employing or using the services of any person to mingle with the patrons while the

- 5 -


1    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing described in Subsection (23)(a);

2        (c)  encouraging or permitting any person to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, buttocks,

3    anus, or genitals of any other person;

4        (d)  permitting any employee or person to wear or use any device or covering, exposed to

5    view, that simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic hair, or any portion of these;

6        (e)  permitting any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the

7    prohibited activities described in this subsection;

8        (f)  permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises who exposes to public view

9    any portion of that person's genitals or anus; or

10        (g)  showing films, still pictures, electronic reproductions, or other visual reproductions

11    depicting:

12        (i)  acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

13    copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts prohibited by Utah law;

14        (ii)  any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast, buttocks, anus, or

15    genitals;

16        (iii)  scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are used to depict, or drawings

17    are used to portray, any of the prohibited activities described in this subsection; or

18        (iv)  scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the genitals.

19        (24)  Nothing in Subsection (23) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

20    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (23).

21        (25) (a)  Although live entertainment is permitted on the premises of a restaurant liquor

22    licensee, a licensee may not allow any person to perform or simulate sexual acts prohibited by

23    Utah law, including sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,

24    flagellation, the touching, caressing, or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals, or the

25    displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.  Entertainers shall perform only upon a stage

26    or at a designated area approved by the commission.

27        (b)  Nothing in Subsection (25)(a) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

28    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (25)(a).

29        (26)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not engage in or permit any form of gambling, or

30    have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11,

31    Gambling, on the premises of the restaurant liquor licensee.

- 6 -


1        (27) (a)  Each restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain an expense ledger or record showing

2    in detail:

3        (i)  quarterly expenditures made separately for:

4        (A)  malt or brewed beverages;

5        (B)  set-ups;

6        (C)  liquor;

7        (D)  food; and

8        (E)  all other items required by the department; and

9        (ii)  sales made separately for:

10        (A)  malt or brewed beverages;

11        (B) set-ups;

12        (C)  food; and

13        (D)  all other items required by the department.

14        (b) The record required by Subsection (27)(a) shall be kept:

15        (i)  in a form approved by the department; and

16        (ii)  current for each three-month period.

17        (c)  Each expenditure shall be supported by:

18        (i)  delivery tickets;

19        (ii)  invoices;

20        (iii)  receipted bills;

21        (iv)  canceled checks;

22        (v)  petty cash vouchers; or

23        (vi)  other sustaining data or memoranda.

24        (28) (a)  Each restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and

25    documents as the department may require.

26        (b)  Any restaurant or person acting for the restaurant, who knowingly forges, falsifies,

27    alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes the entries in any of the books of account or other

28    documents of the restaurant required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules

29    of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, council, or department, or any

30    of their officials or employees, is subject to the immediate suspension or revocation of the

31    restaurant's liquor license and possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.

- 7 -


1        (29) (a)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not close or cease operation for a period longer

2    than 240 hours, unless:

3        (i)  the restaurant liquor license notifies the department in writing at least seven days before

4    the closing; and

5        (ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the department.

6        (b) Notwithstanding Subsection (29)(a), in the case of emergency closure, immediate notice

7    of closure shall be made to the department by telephone.

8        (c)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for a period not to

9    exceed 60 days.  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon written

10    request of the restaurant licensee and upon a showing of good cause.  A closure or cessation of

11    operation may not exceed a total of 90 days without commission approval.

12        (d)  Any notice shall include:

13        (i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;

14        (ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and

15        (iii)  the date on which the licensee will reopen or resume operation.

16        (e)  Failure of the licensee to provide notice and to obtain department authorization prior

17    to closure or cessation of operation shall result in an automatic forfeiture of:

18        (i)  the license; and

19        (ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license year effective

20    immediately.

21        (f)  Failure of the licensee to reopen or resume operation by the approved date shall result

22    in an automatic forfeiture of:

23        (i)  the license; and

24        (ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license year.

25        (30)  Each restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain at least 70% of its total restaurant

26    business from the sale of food, which does not include mix for alcoholic beverages or service

27    charges.

28        (31) A person may not transfer a restaurant liquor license from one location to another,

29    without prior written approval of the commission.

30        (32) (a)  A person, having been granted a restaurant liquor license may not sell, exchange,

31    barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license whether for monetary gain or not.

- 8 -


1        (b)  A restaurant liquor license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of

2    disposition.

3        (33)  Each server of alcoholic beverages in a licensee's establishment shall keep a written

4    beverage tab for each table or group that orders or consumes alcoholic beverages on the premises. 

5    The beverage tab shall list the type and amount of alcoholic beverages ordered or consumed.

6        (34)  A person's willingness to serve alcoholic beverages may not be made a condition of

7    employment as a server with a restaurant that has a restaurant liquor license.

8        Section 2.  Section  32A-4-206 is amended to read:

9         32A-4-206.  Operational restrictions.

10        Each person granted an airport lounge liquor license and the employees and management

11    personnel of the airport lounge shall comply with the following conditions and requirements. 

12    Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of the license or other disciplinary

13    action taken against individual employees or management personnel.

14        (1)  Liquor may not be purchased by an airport lounge liquor licensee except from state

15    stores or package agencies.  Liquor purchased may be transported by the licensee from the place

16    of purchase to the licensed premises.  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with the

17    rules established by the commission.

18        (2)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not sell or provide any primary liquor except in

19    one ounce quantities dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the

20    department in accordance with commission rules adopted under this title, except that:

21        (a)  liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used

22    as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage subject to the following restrictions:

23        (i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the purchase of

24    a primary liquor;

25        (ii)  the secondary ingredient is not the only liquor in the beverage;

26        (iii)  the licensee shall designate a location where flavorings are stored on the floor plan

27    provided to the department; and

28        (iv)  all flavoring containers shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled "flavorings";

29        (b)  wine may be served by the glass in quantities not exceeding five ounces per glass; and

30        (c)  heavy beer may be served in original containers not exceeding one liter.

31        (3) (a)  Airport lounges may sell beer in any size container not exceeding two liters, and

- 9 -


1    on draft without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license from the commission.

2        (b)  Airport lounges that sell beer pursuant to Subsection (3)(a) shall comply with all

3    appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter 10 that apply to on-premise beer retailers except

4    when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less restrictive than the operational restrictions

5    under this chapter that apply to airport lounges.

6        (c)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10 as set forth in

7    Subsection (3)(b) may result in a suspension or revocation of the airport lounge's state liquor

8    license and its alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.

9        (4)  Wine may be served in accordance with commission rule in containers not exceeding

10    750 ml.

11        (5) (a)  Liquor may not be stored or sold in any place other than as designated in the

12    licensee's application, unless the licensee first applies for and receives approval from the

13    department for a change of location within the airport lounge.

14        (b)  A patron or guest may only make purchases in the airport lounge from a server

15    designated and trained by the licensee.

16        (c)  Alcoholic beverages may not be stored where they are visible to persons outside the

17    airport lounge.

18        (6)  The liquor storage area shall remain locked at all times other than those hours and days

19    when liquor sales are authorized by law.

20        (7)  Alcoholic beverages may not be sold or offered for sale at an airport lounge during the

21    following days or hours:

22        (a)  on the day of any regular general election, regular primary election, or statewide special

23    election until after the polls are closed; and

24        (b)  on any other day after 12 midnight and before 8 a.m.

25        (8)  Alcoholic beverages may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to any:

26        (a)  minor;

27        (b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously drunk;

28        (c)  known habitual drunkard; or

29        (d)  known interdicted person.

30        (9)  Liquor may not be sold except at prices fixed by the commission. Mixed drinks and

31    wine may not be sold at discount prices on any day or at any time.

- 10 -


1        (10)  An airport lounge patron or guest may have only one alcoholic beverage at a time

2    before him.

3        (11)  No more than one ounce of primary liquor may be served to a patron or guest at a

4    time, except wine as provided in Subsection (2)(b) and heavy beer as provided in Subsection

5    (2)(c).

6        (12)  Alcoholic beverages may not be purchased by the licensee, or any employee or agent

7    of the licensee, for patrons or guests of the airport lounge.

8        (13) (a)  Beginning January 1, 1991, a person may not bring onto the premises of an airport

9    lounge licensee any alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption.

10        (b)  Beginning January 1, 1991, an airport lounge or its officers, managers, employees, or

11    agents may not allow a person to bring onto the airport lounge premises any alcoholic beverage

12    for on-premise consumption or allow consumption of any such alcoholic beverage on its premises.

13        (c)  Beginning January 1, 1991, if any airport lounge liquor licensee or any of its officers,

14    managers, employees, or agents violates Subsection (13):

15        (i)  the commission may immediately suspend or revoke the airport lounge's liquor license

16    and the airport lounge liquor licensee is subject to criminal prosecution under Chapter 12; and

17        (ii)  the local authority may immediately suspend or revoke the airport lounge's local liquor

18    license, local consent under Subsection 32A-4-202(1)[(c)], or local business license.

19        (14)  Alcoholic beverages purchased from the airport lounge may not be removed from the

20    airport lounge premises.

21        (15)  Minors may not be employed by an airport lounge licensee to sell or dispense

22    alcoholic beverages.

23        (16)  An employee of a licensee, while on duty, may not consume an alcoholic beverage

24    or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages.

25        (17)  Each airport lounge liquor licensee shall display in a prominent place in the airport

26    lounge:

27        (a)  the liquor license that is issued by the department;

28        (b)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through its calibrated

29    metered dispensing system; and

30        (c)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: The consumption of alcoholic beverages

31    purchased in this establishment may be hazardous to your health and the safety of others."

- 11 -


1        (18) (a)  Each airport lounge liquor licensee shall maintain an expense ledger or record

2    showing in detail:

3        (i)  quarterly expenditures made separately for malt or brewed beverages, liquor, and all

4    other items required by the department; and

5        (ii)  sales made separately for malt or brewed beverages, food, and all other items required

6    by the department.

7        (b)  This record shall be kept in a form approved by the department and shall be kept

8    current for each three-month period.  Each expenditure shall be supported by delivery tickets,

9    invoices, receipted bills, canceled checks, petty cash vouchers, or other sustaining data or

10    memoranda.

11        (19)  Each airport lounge liquor licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and

12    documents as the department may require.  Any airport lounge or person acting for the airport

13    lounge, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes the entries

14    in any of the books of account or other documents of the airport lounge required to be made,

15    maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving

16    the commission, council, or department, or any of their officials or employees, is subject to the

17    immediate suspension or revocation of the airport lounge's liquor license and possible criminal

18    prosecution under Chapter 12.

19        (20)  There shall be no transfer of an airport lounge liquor license from one location to

20    another, without prior written approval of the commission.

21        (21) (a)  A person, having been granted an airport lounge liquor license, may not sell,

22    exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license whether for monetary gain

23    or not.

24        (b)  An airport lounge liquor license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of

25    disposition.

26        (22)  Each server of alcoholic beverages in a licensee's establishment shall keep a written

27    beverage tab for each table or group that orders or consumes alcoholic beverages on the premises. 

28    The beverage tab shall list the type and amount of alcoholic beverages ordered or consumed.

29        (23)  An airport lounge liquor licensee's premises may not be leased for private functions.

30        (24)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not engage in or permit any form of gambling,

31    or have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11,

- 12 -


1    Gambling, on the premises of the airport lounge liquor licensee. 

2        Section 3.  Section  32A-5-107 is amended to read:

3         32A-5-107.  Operational restrictions.  

4        Each corporation or association granted a private club liquor license and its employees,

5    officers, managing agent, and members shall comply with the following conditions and

6    requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of the license or other

7    disciplinary action taken against individual employees or management personnel.

8        (1)  Each private club shall hold regular meetings as required by its articles or bylaws and

9    conduct its business through regularly elected officers.  Within ten days following the election of

10    any officer, the department shall be notified in writing of the officer's name, address, and office

11    to which the officer has been elected, and the term of that office.

12        (2)  Each private club may admit members only on written application signed by the

13    applicant, following investigation and approval of the governing body.  Admissions shall be

14    recorded in the official minutes of a regular meeting of the governing body and the application,

15    whether approved or disapproved, shall be filed as a part of the official records of the licensee. 

16    An applicant may not be accorded the privileges of a member until a quorum of the governing

17    body has formally voted upon and approved the applicant as a member.  An applicant may not be

18    admitted to membership until seven days after the application is submitted.

19        (3)  Each private club shall maintain a current and complete membership record showing

20    the date of application of each proposed member, the member's address, the date of admission

21    following application, and the date initiation fees and dues were assessed and paid.  The record

22    shall also show the serial number of the membership card issued to each member. A current record

23    shall also be kept indicating when members were dropped or resigned.

24        (4)  Each private club shall establish in the club bylaws initial fees and monthly dues, as

25    established by commission rules, which are collected from all members.

26        (5)  Each private club may allow guests or visitors to use the premises only when

27    previously authorized by a member.  A member is responsible for all services extended to guests

28    and visitors.  If the guest or visitor is a member of the same fraternal organization as the private

29    club liquor licensee, no previous authorization is required.

30        (6)  Each private club shall limit the issuance of visitor cards for a period not to exceed two

31    weeks and assess and collect a fee from each visitor of not less than $5 for each two-week period

- 13 -


1    the visitor card is issued.  One dollar of every visitor card fee shall be remitted quarterly to the

2    department for the administration of this title.  A current record of the issuance of each card shall

3    be maintained and shall contain the name of the member sponsoring the visitor.

4        (7)  A private club may not sell alcoholic beverages to any person other than a member,

5    guest, or visitor who holds a valid visitor card issued under Subsection (6).

6        (8)  A person who is under 21 years of age may not be a member, officer, director, or

7    trustee of a private club.

8        (9)  An employee of a club, while on duty, may not consume an alcoholic beverage, be

9    under the influence of alcoholic beverages, sponsor a person for visitor privileges, or act as a host

10    for a guest.

11        (10)  A visitor to a club may not host more than five guests at one time.

12        (11)  Each private club shall maintain an expense ledger or record showing in detail all

13    expenditures separated by payments for malt or brewed beverages, liquor, food, detailed payroll,

14    entertainment, rent, utilities, supplies, and all other expenditures.  This record shall be kept in a

15    form approved by the department and balanced each month.  Each expenditure shall be supported

16    by delivery tickets, invoices, receipted bills, canceled checks, petty cash vouchers, or other

17    sustaining data or memoranda.  All invoices and receipted bills for the current calendar or fiscal

18    year documenting purchases made by officers of the club for the benefit of the club shall also be

19    maintained.

20        (12)  Each private club shall maintain a bank account that shows all income and

21    expenditures as a control on the income and disbursements records.  This account shall be balanced

22    each month under the direction of the treasurer or other officer of the licensee.

23        (13)  Each private club shall maintain a minute book that is posted currently by the

24    secretary.  This record shall contain the minutes of all regular and special meetings of the

25    governing body and all committee meetings held to conduct club business.  Membership lists shall

26    also be maintained.

27        (14)  Each private club shall maintain current copies of the club's articles of incorporation,

28    current bylaws, and current house rules. Changes in the bylaws are not effective unless submitted

29    to the department within ten days after adoption, and become effective 15 days after received by

30    the department unless rejected by the department before the expiration of the 15-day period.

31        (15)  Each private club shall maintain accounting and other records and documents as the

- 14 -


1    department may require.

2        (16)  Any club or person acting for the club, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters,

3    cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes the entries in any of the books of account or other

4    documents of the club required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of

5    the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, council, or department, or any of

6    their officials or employees, is subject to the immediate suspension or revocation of the club's

7    license and possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12.

8        (17)  Each private club shall maintain and keep all the records required by this section and

9    all other books, records, receipts, and disbursements maintained or utilized by the licensee, as the

10    department requires, for a minimum period of three years.  All records, books, receipts, and

11    disbursements are subject to inspection by authorized representatives of the commission,

12    department, and council.  The club shall allow the department, through its auditors or examiners,

13    to audit all records of the club at times the department considers advisable.  The department shall

14    audit the records of the licensee at least once annually.

15        (18)  Each private club shall make available to the department, upon request, verified

16    copies of any returns filed with the United States Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service,

17    under the federal Internal Revenue Code.  Failure to provide any returns and supporting documents

18    upon reasonable request by the department or, alternatively, to provide evidence of an extension

19    granted by the Internal Revenue Service, constitutes sufficient grounds for the commission to

20    suspend or revoke a license.  Any return or copy of a return so filed with the department is

21    confidential and may not be used in any manner not directly connected with the enforcement of

22    this title, nor may it be disclosed to any person or any department or agency of government,

23    whether federal, state, or local.

24        (19)  Each private club shall own or lease premises suitable for its activities in its own

25    name.  A copy of the lease shall be filed with the department.

26        (20)  Each private club shall operate the club under the supervision of a manager or house

27    committee, appointed by the governing body of the club.

28        (21)  A private club may not maintain facilities in any manner that barricades or conceals

29    the club operation.  Any member of the commission, authorized department personnel, member

30    of the council, or any peace officer shall, upon presentation of credentials, be admitted

31    immediately to the club and permitted without hindrance or delay to inspect completely the entire

- 15 -


1    club premises and all books and records of the licensee, at any time during which the same are

2    open for the transaction of business to its members.

3        (22)  A private club may not pay any person or entity any fee, salary, rent, or other payment

4    of any kind in excess of the fair market value for the service rendered, goods furnished, or facilities

5    or equipment rented. It is the intention of this subsection to insure that no officer, managing agent,

6    employee, or other person derives a principal economic benefit from the operation of a club.

7        (23)  A private club may not engage in any public solicitation or public advertising

8    calculated to increase its membership.

9        (24)  Each private club shall comply with the following operational restrictions:

10        (a)  The liquor storage and sales area shall remain locked at all times when it is not open

11    for business.

12        (b)  Liquor may not be purchased by a private club liquor licensee except from state stores

13    or package agencies.  Liquor so purchased may be transported by the licensee from the place of

14    purchase to the licensed premises.  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with rules

15    established by the commission.

16        (c)  Beginning July 1, 1991, a private club liquor licensee may not sell or provide any

17    primary liquor except in one ounce quantities dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing

18    system approved by the department in accordance with commission rules adopted under this title,

19    except that:

20        (i)  liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used

21    as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage subject to the following restrictions:

22        (A)  the beverage shall contain liquor from a lawfully purchased container;

23        (B)  the secondary ingredient is not the only liquor in the beverage;

24        (C)  the licensee shall designate a location where flavorings are stored on the floor plan

25    provided to the department; and

26        (D)  all flavoring containers shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled "flavorings";

27        (ii)  liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used

28    as a flavoring on desserts and in the preparation of flaming food dishes, drinks, and desserts;

29        (iii)  wine may be served by the glass in quantities not exceeding five ounces per glass; and

30        (iv)  heavy beer may be served in standard containers not exceeding one liter.

31        (d) (i)  Private clubs licensed to sell liquor may sell beer in any size container not

- 16 -


1    exceeding two liters, and on draft without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license

2    from the commission.

3        (ii)  Private clubs licensed under this chapter that sell beer pursuant to Subsection (24)(d)(i)

4    shall comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Title 32A, Chapter 10, Beer

5    Retailer Licenses, that apply to on-premise beer retailers except when those restrictions are

6    inconsistent with or less restrictive than the operational restrictions under this chapter.

7        (iii)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Title 32A, Chapter 10, as set

8    forth in Subsection (24)(d)(ii) may result in a suspension or revocation of the private club's state

9    liquor license and its alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.

10        (e)  Wine may be served in accordance with commission rule in containers not exceeding

11    750 ml.

12        (f)  A private club may not charge for the service or supply of glasses, ice, or mixers unless

13    the charges are fixed in the house rules of the club and a copy of the rules is kept on the club

14    premises and available at all times for examination by the members, guests, and visitors to the

15    club.

16        (g)  Minors may not be employed by any club to sell, dispense, or handle any alcoholic

17    beverage.

18        (h)  An officer, director, managing agent, employee, and any other person employed by or

19    acting for or in behalf of any licensee, may not sell, deliver, or furnish, or cause or permit to be

20    sold, delivered, or furnished any liquor to any:

21        (i)  minor;

22        (ii)  person actually, apparently, or obviously drunk;

23        (iii)  known habitual drunkard; or

24        (iv)  known interdicted person.

25        (i) (i)  Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale at any private club during the following

26    days or hours:

27        (A)  on the day of any regular general election, regular primary election, or statewide

28    special election until after the polls are closed;

29        (B)  on the day of any municipal, special district, or school election, but only within the

30    boundaries of the municipality, special district, or school district, and only if closure is required

31    by local ordinance; and

- 17 -


1        (C)  on Sunday and any state or federal legal holiday after 12 midnight and before 12 noon.

2        (ii)  The hours of beer sales are those specified in Chapter 10 for on-premise beer licensees.

3        (j)  On all other days the liquor storage and sales area in the club shall be closed from 1

4    a.m. until 10 a.m.

5        (k)  Liquor may not be sold except at prices fixed by the commission. Mixed drinks and

6    wine may not be sold at discount prices on any date or at any time.

7        (l)  Beginning July 1, 1991, no more than one ounce of primary liquor may be served to

8    a member, guest, or visitor at a time, except wine as provided in Subsection (24)(c)(iii) and heavy

9    beer as provided in Subsection (24)(c)(iv).

10        (m) (i)  Beginning January 1, 1991, a person may not bring onto the premises of a private

11    club liquor licensee any alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption, except a person may

12    bring, subject to the discretion of the licensee, cork-finished wine onto the premises of any private

13    club liquor licensee and consume wine pursuant to Subsection (24)(n).

14        (ii)  Beginning January 1, 1991, a private club or its officers, managers, employees, or

15    agents may not allow a person to bring onto the private club premises any alcoholic beverage for

16    on-premise consumption, except cork-finished wine under Subsection (24)(m)(i).

17        (iii)  Beginning January 1, 1991, if any private club licensee or any of its officers,

18    managers, employees, or agents violates this subsection:

19        (A)  the commission may immediately suspend or revoke the private club's liquor license

20    and the private club licensee is subject to criminal prosecution under Chapter 12; and

21        (B)  the local authority may immediately suspend or revoke the private club's local liquor

22    license, local consent under Subsection 32A-5-102(1)[(c)], or local business license.

23        (n)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the private club as

24    authorized by commission rule for wine purchased at the private club or carried in by a member,

25    guest, or visitor.  If wine is carried in by a member, guest, or visitor, the member, guest, or visitor

26    shall deliver the wine to a server or other representative of the licensee upon entering the licensee

27    premises.

28        (o)  A member, guest, or visitor to a club may not carry from a club premises an open

29    container used primarily for drinking purposes containing any alcoholic beverage.

30        (p)  Each private club liquor licensee shall display in a prominent place in the private club:

31        (i)  the private club liquor license that is issued by the department;

- 18 -


1        (ii)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through its calibrated

2    metered dispensing system; and

3        (iii)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: The consumption of alcoholic beverages

4    purchased in this establishment may be hazardous to your health and the safety of others."

5        (q)  The following acts or conduct in a private club licensed under this chapter are

6    considered contrary to the public welfare and morals, and are prohibited upon the premises:

7        (i)  employing or using any person in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while the

8    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing that exposes to view any portion of the female

9    breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks,

10    vulva, or genitals;

11        (ii)  employing or using the services of any person to mingle with the patrons while the

12    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing described in Subsection (24)(q)(i);

13        (iii)  encouraging or permitting any person to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, buttocks,

14    anus, or genitals of any other person;

15        (iv)  permitting any employee or person to wear or use any device or covering, exposed to

16    view, that simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic hair, or any portion of these;

17        (v)  permitting any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the

18    prohibited activities described in this subsection;

19        (vi)  permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises who exposes to public view

20    any portion of his or her genitals or anus; or

21        (vii)  showing films, still pictures, electronic reproductions, or other visual reproductions

22    depicting:

23        (A)  acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

24    copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts prohibited by Utah law;

25        (B)  any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast, buttocks, anus, or

26    genitals;

27        (C)  scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are used to depict, or drawings

28    are used to portray, any of the prohibited activities described in this subsection; or

29        (D)  scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the genitals.

30        (r)  Nothing in Subsection (24)(q) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

31    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (24)(q).

- 19 -


1        (s) (i)  Although live entertainment is permitted on the premises of a club liquor licensee,

2    a licensee may not allow any person to perform or simulate sexual acts prohibited by Utah law,

3    including sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or the

4    touching, caressing, or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals, or the displaying of the

5    pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.  Entertainers shall perform only upon a stage or at a designated

6    area approved by the commission.

7        (ii)  Nothing in Subsection (24)(s)(i) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

8    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (24)(s)(i).

9        (25)  A private club may not engage in or permit any form of gambling, or have any video

10    gaming device, as defined and proscribed in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling, on the

11    premises of the private club.

12        (26) (a)  A private club may not close or cease operation for a period longer than 240 hours,

13    unless written notice is given to the department at least seven days before the closing, and the

14    closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the department.

15        (b)  In the case of emergency closure, immediate notice of closure shall be made to the

16    department by telephone.

17        (c)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for a period not to

18    exceed 60 days.  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon written

19    request of the private club and upon a showing of good cause.  A closure or cessation of operation

20    may not exceed a total of 90 days without commission approval.

21        (d)  Any notice shall include the dates of closure or cessation of operation, the reason for

22    the closure or cessation of operation, and the date on which the licensee will reopen or resume

23    operation.

24        (e)  Failure of the licensee to provide notice and to obtain department authorization prior

25    to closure or cessation of operation shall result in an automatic forfeiture of the license and the

26    forfeiture of the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license year effective

27    immediately.

28        (f)  Failure of the licensee to reopen or resume operation by the approved date shall result

29    in an automatic forfeiture of the license and the forfeiture of the unused portion of the club's

30    license fee for the remainder of the license year.

31        (27)  Each private club shall conduct its affairs so that it is not operated for a pecuniary

- 20 -


1    profit.

2        (28)  A private club may not transfer a private club liquor license from one location to

3    another, without prior written approval of the commission.

4        (29)  A person, having been granted a private club liquor license, may not sell, exchange,

5    barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license, whether for monetary gain or not.  A

6    private club liquor license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of disposition. 

7        Section 4.  Section  32A-7-106 is amended to read:

8         32A-7-106.  Operational restrictions.  

9        (1)  Any organization granted a single event permit and any person involved in the storage,

10    sale, or service of liquor at the event for which the permit is issued, shall abide by this title, the

11    rules of the commission, and the special conditions and requirements provided in this section. 

12    Failure to do so may result in an immediate revocation of the permit, forfeiture of the surety bond,

13    immediate seizure of all liquor present at the event, and disqualifies the organization from applying

14    for a single event permit for a period of three years from the date of revocation of the permit.  Any

15    liquor seized under this subsection shall be returned to the organization after the event if forfeiture

16    proceedings are not instituted under Section 32A-13-103.

17        (2)  Special conditions and requirements for single event permittees include, but are not

18    limited to, the following:

19        (a)  All persons involved in the storage, sale, or service of liquor at the event do so under

20    the supervision and direction of the permittee.

21        (b)  All liquor stored, sold, served, and consumed at the event shall be purchased by the

22    permittee from a state store or package agency, and is considered under the control of the permittee

23    during the event.   Attendees of the event may not bring any liquor other than that furnished by the

24    permittee onto the premises of the event.

25        (c)  A permittee may not charge more than the maximum amount set forth in the permit for

26    any alcoholic beverage.

27        (d)  Each permittee shall post in a prominent place in the area in which liquor is being sold,

28    served, and consumed, a copy of the permit, together with a list of the operational restrictions and

29    requirements of single event permittees set forth in this section.

30        (e)  Liquor purchased for the event  may not be stored in any place other than that described

31    in the application and designated on the permit.

- 21 -


1        (f)  Liquor purchased for the event  may not be sold or served in any place other than the

2    site described in the application and designated on the permit.

3        (g)  Liquor purchased for the event may not be consumed in any area other than that

4    described in the application and designated on the permit.

5        (h) (i)  A single event permittee may not provide any primary liquor except in one ounce

6    quantities, except that:

7        (A)  additional liquor may be used in a beverage if used as a secondary flavoring

8    ingredient, but only in conjunction with the primary liquor and only if the secondary ingredient

9    is not the only liquor in the beverage;

10        (B)  wine may be served by the glass in quantities not exceeding five ounces per glass; and

11        (C)  heavy beer may be served in original containers not exceeding one liter.

12        (ii)  Liquor otherwise need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing

13    system.

14        (i)  Hours of sale, service, and consumption shall be in accordance with any local ordinance

15    restrictions.

16        (j)  Liquor may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished on the day of any regular

17    general election, regular primary election, or statewide special election until after the polls are

18    closed.

19        (k)  Liquor may not be sold, served, delivered, or furnished to any:

20        (i)  minor;

21        (ii)  person actually, apparently, or obviously drunk;

22        (iii)  known habitual drunkard; or

23        (iv)  known interdicted person.

24        (l)  Minors may not sell, serve, dispense, or handle any alcoholic beverage at the event.

25        (m)  Public advertising of the event  may not include reference to the availability of any

26    alcoholic beverage at the event.  However, the permittee may use signs or similar displays at the

27    site of the event to inform attendees of the locations where alcoholic beverages are being

28    dispensed.

29        (3)  The following acts or conduct at an event for which a permit is issued under this

30    chapter are considered contrary to the public welfare and morals, and are prohibited upon the

31    premises:

- 22 -


1        (a)  employing or using any person in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while the

2    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing that exposes to view any portion of the female

3    breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks,

4    vulva, or genitals;

5        (b)  employing or using the services of any person to mingle with the patrons while the

6    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing described in Subsection (a);

7        (c)  encouraging or permitting any person to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, buttocks,

8    anus, or genitals of any other person;

9        (d)  permitting any employee or person to wear or use any device or covering, exposed to

10    view, that simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic hair, or any portion of these;

11        (e)  permitting any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the

12    prohibited activities described in this subsection;

13        (f)  permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises who exposes to public view

14    any portion of his or her genitals or anus;

15        (g)  showing films, still pictures, electronic reproductions, or other visual reproductions

16    depicting:

17        (i)  acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

18    copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts prohibited by Utah law;

19        (ii)  any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast, buttocks, anus, or

20    genitals;

21        (iii)  scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are used to depict, or drawings

22    are used to portray, any of the prohibited activities described in this subsection; or

23        (iv)  scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the genitals.

24        (4)  Nothing in Subsection (3) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive of

25    acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (3).

26        (5) (a)  Although live entertainment is permitted at the event for which a permit has been

27    issued under this chapter, a permittee may not allow any person to perform or simulate sexual acts

28    prohibited by Utah law, including sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

29    copulation, flagellation, the touching, caressing, or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus, or

30    genitals, or the displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.  Entertainers shall perform

31    only upon a stage or at a designated area approved by the commission.

- 23 -


1        (b)  Nothing in Subsection (a) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive of

2    acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (a).

3        (6)  The permittee shall maintain an expense and revenue ledger or record showing:

4        (a)  expenditures made for liquor, set-ups, and other ingredients and components of

5    alcoholic beverages; and

6        (b)  the revenue from sale of alcoholic beverages.

7        (7)  Single event permits are not transferable.

8        (8)  A single event permittee may not engage in or allow any form of gambling, or have

9    any video gaming device as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling,

10    on the premises serviced by the single event permittee.

11        Section 5.  Section  32A-10-206 is amended to read:

12         32A-10-206.  Operational restrictions.  

13        Each person granted an on-premise beer retailer license and the employees and

14    management personnel of the on-premise beer retailer licensee shall comply with the following

15    conditions and requirements. Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of the

16    license or other disciplinary action taken against individual employees or management personnel.

17        (1)  On-premise beer retailer licensees may sell beer in open containers, in any size not

18    exceeding two liters, and on draft.

19        (2)  Liquor may not be stored or sold on the premises of any on-premise beer retailer

20    licensee.

21        (3)  A patron or guest may only make purchases in the on-premise beer retailer licensee

22    from a server designated and trained by the licensee.

23        (4) (a)  Beer may not be sold or offered for sale at any on-premise beer retailer licensee

24    after 1 a.m. and before 10 a.m.

25        (b)  Beer may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to any:

26        (i)  minor;

27        (ii)  person actually, apparently, or obviously drunk;

28        (iii)  known habitual drunkard; or

29        (iv)  known interdicted person.

30        (5)  Beer sold in sealed containers by the on-premise beer retailer licensee may be removed

31    from the on-premise beer retailer premises.

- 24 -


1        (6) (a)  Beginning January 1, 1991, a person may not bring onto the premises of an

2    on-premise beer retailer licensee any alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption.

3        (b)  Beginning January 1, 1991, an on-premise beer retailer licensee or its officers,

4    managers, employees, or agents may not allow a person to bring onto the on-premise beer retailer

5    licensee premises any alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption or allow consumption of

6    any such alcoholic beverage on its premises.

7        (c)  Beginning January 1, 1991, if any on-premise beer retailer licensee or any of its

8    officers, managers, employees, or agents violates Subsection (6):

9        (i)  the commission may immediately suspend or revoke the on-premise beer retailer

10    license and the on-premise beer retailer licensee is subject to possible criminal prosecution under

11    Chapter 12; and

12        (ii)  the local authority may immediately suspend or revoke the business license of the

13    on-premise beer retailer licensee.

14        (7)  Minors may not be employed by or be on the premises of an on-premise beer retailer

15    licensee to sell or dispense beer.  Minors may not be employed by or be on the premises of any

16    tavern.

17        (8)  An employee of a licensee, while on duty, may not consume an alcoholic beverage or

18    be under the influence of alcoholic beverages.

19        (9)  Each on-premise beer retailer licensee shall display in a prominent place in the

20    on-premise beer retailer licensee:

21        (a)  the on-premise beer retailer license that is issued by the department; and

22        (b)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: The consumption of alcoholic beverages

23    purchased in this establishment may be hazardous to your health and the safety of others."

24        (10)  The following acts or conduct in an on-premise beer retailer outlet licensed under this

25    part are considered contrary to the public welfare and morals, and are prohibited upon the

26    premises:

27        (a)  employing or using any person in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while the

28    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing that exposes to view any portion of the female

29    breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks,

30    vulva, or genitals;

31        (b)  employing or using the services of any person to mingle with the patrons while the

- 25 -


1    person is unclothed or in attire, costume, or clothing as described in Subsection (10)(a);

2        (c)  encouraging or permitting any person to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, buttocks,

3    anus, or genitals of any other person;

4        (d)  permitting any employee or person to wear or use any device or covering, exposed to

5    view, that simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic hair, or any portion of these;

6        (e)  permitting any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the

7    prohibited activities described in this section;

8        (f)  permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises who exposes to public view

9    any portion of his or her genitals or anus; or

10        (g)  showing films, still pictures, electronic reproductions, or other visual reproductions

11    depicting:

12        (i)  acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

13    copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts that are prohibited by Utah law;

14        (ii)  any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast, buttocks, anus, or

15    genitals;

16        (iii)  scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are employed to depict, or

17    drawings are employed to portray, any of the prohibited activities described in this section; or

18        (iv)  scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the genitals.

19        (11)  Nothing in Subsection (10) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

20    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (10).

21        (12)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee may not engage in or permit any form of

22    gambling, or have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part

23    11, Gambling, on the premises of the on-premise beer retailer licensee.

24        (13) (a)  Although live entertainment is permitted on the premises of an on-premise beer

25    retailer licensee, a licensee may not permit any person to perform or simulate sexual acts

26    prohibited by Utah law, including sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral

27    copulation, flagellation, the touching, caressing, or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus, or

28    genitals, or the displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.  Entertainers shall perform

29    only upon a stage or at a designated area approved by the commission.

30        (b)  Nothing in Subsection (13)(a) precludes a local authority from being more restrictive

31    of acts or conduct of the type prohibited in Subsection (13)(a).

- 26 -


1        (14)  Each on-premise beer retailer licensee shall maintain accounting and other records

2    and documents as the department may require.  Any on-premise beer retailer licensee or person

3    acting for the on-premise beer retailer licensee, who  knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels,

4    destroys, conceals, or removes the entries in any of the books of account or other documents of

5    the on-premise beer retailer licensee required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or

6    the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, council, or department,

7    or any of their officials or employees, is subject to the immediate suspension or revocation of the

8    on-premise beer retailer license and possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12.

9        (15)  There shall be no transfer of an on-premise beer retailer license from one location to

10    another, without prior written approval of the commission.

11        (16) (a)  A person having been granted an on-premise beer retailer license may not sell,

12    exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license whether for monetary gain

13    or not.

14        (b)  An on-premise beer retailer license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type

15    of disposition. 

16        Section 6.  Section  76-10-1101 is amended to read:

17         76-10-1101.  Definitions.  

18        For the purpose of this part:

19        (1)  "Gambling" means risking anything of value for a return or risking anything of value

20    upon the outcome of a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device when the return or

21    outcome is based upon an element of chance and is in accord with an agreement or understanding

22    that someone will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome, and gambling

23    includes a lottery; gambling does not include:

24        (a)  A lawful business transaction, or

25        (b)  Playing an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded right of

26    replay not exchangeable for value.

27        [(3)] (2)  "Gambling bet" means money, checks, credit, or any other representation of

28    value.

29        [(4)] (3)  "Gambling device or record" means anything specifically designed for use in

30    gambling or used primarily for gambling.

31        [(5)] (4)  "Gambling proceeds" means anything of value used in gambling.

- 27 -


1        [(2)] (5)  "Lottery" means any scheme for the disposal or distribution of property by chance

2    among persons who have paid or promised to pay any valuable consideration for the chance of

3    obtaining property, or portion of it, or for any share or any interest in property, upon any

4    agreement, understanding, or expectation that it is to be distributed or disposed of by lot or chance,

5    whether called a lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise, or by whatever name it may be known.

6        (6)  "Video gaming device" means anything that possesses all of the following:

7        (a)  short play time programming, which includes a constant and relatively short duration

8    of player clock-time, which is not extended or affected by the skill of a player;

9        (b)  meter, tracking, or recording mechanisms, which are intended to record or track:

10        (i)  any money or credits remaining; or

11        (ii)  any money, credits, or winning plays paid out; and

12        (c)  multiple play programming or settings that allow a player the option of risking coins

13    or credits on any play.

14        Section 7.  Section  76-10-1102 is amended to read:

15         76-10-1102.  Gambling.  

16        (1) A person is guilty of gambling if he:

17        (a)  participates in gambling[, or];

18        (b)  knowingly permits any gambling to be played, conducted, or dealt upon or in any real

19    or personal property owned, rented, or under the control of the actor, whether in whole or in part[.];

20    or

21        (c)  allows the use of any video gaming device that is:

22        (i)  in any business establishment or public place; and

23        (ii)  accessible for use by any person.

24        (2)  Gambling is a class B misdemeanor, provided, however, that any person who is twice

25    convicted under this section shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor.


- 28 -




 Legislative Review Note
    as of  12-30-97  11:22 AM


A limited legal review of this bill raises no obvious constitutional or statutory concerns.

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel


- 29 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







