Sponsors: []Modifications: ; or(d)  violated a stalking injunction issued pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 3a, StalkingInjunctions; or(f)  violated a permanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to Subsection (6)(6)  A conviction for stalking or a plea accepted by the court and held in abeyance for aperiod of time shall operate as an application for a permanent criminal stalking injunction limitingthe contact of the defendant and the victim.(a)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction shall be issued without a hearing unless thedefendant requests a hearing.(i)  If the defendant requests a hearing, it shall be held at the time of the verdict unless thevictim requests otherwise.(ii)  If the verdict was entered in a justice court, a certified copy of the judgment andconviction or a certified copy of the court's order holding the plea in abeyance must be filed by thevictim in the district court as an application and request for hearing for a permanent stalkinginjunction.(b)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction may grant the following relief:(i)  an order restraining the defendant from entering the residence, property, school, orplace of employment of the victim and requiring the defendant to stay away from any specifiedplace that is named in the order and is frequented regularly by the victim; and(ii)  an order restraining the defendant from making contact with the victim, including anorder forbidding the defendant from personally or through an agent initiating any communicationlikely to cause annoyance or alarm, including personal, written, or telephone contact with thevictim, the victim's employers, employees, fellow workers, or others with whom communicationwould be likely to cause annoyance or alarm to the victim.(c)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction may be dissolved upon application of thevictim to the court which granted the order.(d)  Notice of permanent criminal stalking injunctions issued pursuant to this section shallbe sent by the court to the statewide warrants network or similar system.(e)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to this section shall beeffective statewide.(f)  Violation of an injunction issued pursuant to this section shall constitute an offense ofstalking.  Violations may be enforced in a civil action initiated by the stalking victim, a criminalaction initiated by a prosecuting attorney, or both.(g)  Nothing in this section shall preclude the filing of a criminal information for stalkingbased on the same act which is the basis for the violation of the permanent stalking injunction., except in the case of stalking,Petitionsalleging the commission of stalking shall be handled pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 3a, StalkingInjunctions.    77-3a-101.(1)  As used in this chapter, "stalking" means the crime of stalking as defined in Section76-5-106.5.(2)  Any person who believes that they are the victim of stalking may file a petition withthe district court in the district in which the petitioner resides or in which any of the eventsoccurred for a temporary injunction against the alleged stalker.  A person unable to file a petitionon their own, may request a third party to file a petition on their behalf.(3)  The petition shall state:(a)  the name of the petitioner.  The petitioner's address shall be disclosed to the court forpurposes of service, but, on request of the petitioner, the address may not be listed on the petition. The address shall be protected and maintained in a separate document or automated database andis not subject to release, disclosure, or any form of public access except as ordered by the court forgood cause shown;(b)  the name and address, if known, of the respondent;(c)  a specific statement recounting events and dates of the actions constituting the allegedstalking; and(d)  if there is a prior court order concerning the same conduct, the name of the court inwhich the order was rendered.(4)  If the court determines that there is reason to believe that an offense of stalking hasoccurred, an ex parte temporary injunction may be issued by the court that includes any of thefollowing:(a)  either or both parties may be enjoined from committing stalking;(b)  either or both parties may be restrained from coming near the residence, place ofemployment, or school of the other party or specifically designated locations or persons; or(c)  relief necessary or convenient for the protection of the petitioner and other specificallydesignated persons under the circumstances.(5)  Any time during the period in which the temporary stalking injunction is in effect, therespondent is entitled to one hearing upon written request.(a)  A hearing requested by the respondent shall be held within ten days from the date therequest is filed with the court unless the court finds compelling reasons to continue the hearing. The hearing shall then be held at the earliest possible time.(b)  An ex parte temporary stalking injunction issued under this section shall state on itsface:(i)  that the respondent is entitled to a hearing upon written request; and(ii)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed.(c)  At the hearing, the court may modify, revoke, or continue the injunction.(6)  The temporary stalking injunction shall include the following statement: "Warning. This is an official court order.  If you disobey this order the court may find you in contempt.  Youmay also be arrested and prosecuted for the crime of stalking and any other crime you may havecommitted in disobeying this order."(7)  The temporary stalking injunction shall be served on the respondent within one yearfrom the date it is signed.  A temporary stalking injunction is effective upon service and expires,unless renewed, six months after service of the original temporary stalking injunction.(8)  Within 24 hours after the affidavit or acceptance of service has been returned,excluding weekends and holidays, the clerk of the court from which the temporary stalkinginjunction was issued shall enter a copy of the temporary stalking injunction and proof of serviceor acceptance of service in the statewide network for warrants or a similar system.(a)  The effectiveness of a temporary stalking injunction does not depend upon its entry inthe statewide system and, for enforcement purposes, a certified copy of a temporary stalkinginjunction is presumed to be a valid existing order of the court for a period of six months from thedate of service of the temporary stalking injunction on the respondent.(b)  Any changes, renewals, or modifications of the temporary stalking injunction areeffective on entry by the court and shall be entered into the statewide system within 24 hours ofthe entry, excluding weekends and holidays.(9)  The temporary stalking injunction may be dissolved at any time upon application ofthe petitioner to the court which granted it.(10)  The remedies provided in this chapter for enforcement of the orders of the court arein addition to any other civil and criminal remedies available.  The district court shall hear anddecide all matters arising pursuant to this section.(11)  After a hearing with notice to the affected party, the court may enter an orderrequiring any party to pay the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees.(12)  This chapter does not apply to protective orders or ex parte protective orders issuedpursuant to Title 30, Chapter 6, Cohabitant Abuse Act, or to preliminary injunctions issuedpursuant to an action for dissolution of marriage or legal separation.    77-3a-102.(1)  A person may file an application for ex parte renewal of the temporary stalkinginjunction with the district court that issued the original injunction.  The renewal application shallbe filed within 30 days prior to the expiration date of the original injunction.(2)  Notice of the renewal of the temporary stalking injunction shall be served on therespondent, and include the following statements:(a)  the petitioner has applied for a renewal of the temporary stalking injunction;(b)  the respondent has a right to request in writing a hearing on the renewal within ten daysof service;(c)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed; and(d) if the respondent fails to request a hearing in writing within ten days of service, theinjunction will be automatically renewed for an additional six months and no further notice willbe given to the respondent.(3)  If the respondent requests a hearing in writing within ten days of service, the court shallschedule a hearing within ten days of receipt of the request unless the court finds compellingreasons to continue the hearing.  The hearing shall then be held at the earliest possible time.  Atthe hearing, the burden is on the respondent to show good cause why the injunction should not berenewed.(4)  The renewal notice shall be served on the respondent within six months from theexpiration date of the original temporary stalking injunction.  A renewal notice that is not servedon the respondent within six months automatically expires at the end of the six months.(5)  If no hearing is requested by a respondent after service of notice, the temporarystalking injunction is automatically renewed for a period of six months, starting from the tenth dayafter service on the defendant, without further action of the court.    77-3a-103.(1)  A person may apply for a permanent stalking injunction if, after issuance of atemporary stalking injunction, one or more renewals have been granted by the court.(2)  An application for a permanent stalking injunction shall consist of a filing for amodification of a temporary stalking injunction to a permanent stalking injunction.(3)  Notice of the application shall be served on the respondent and state:(a)  that the petitioner has applied for a modification of the temporary stalking injunctionto a permanent stalking injunction;(b)  that the respondent has a right to request a hearing on the modification within ten daysof service;(c)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed;(d)  that if the respondent fails to request a hearing within ten days of service, thetemporary stalking injunction is automatically modified to a permanent stalking injunction withoutfurther notice to the respondent; and(e)  that the respondent can make a written request at any time for a hearing to show causeto dissolve or modify the permanent stalking injunction.(4)  The modification for a permanent stalking injunction notice shall be served on therespondent within one year from the expiration date of the last renewal of the original temporarystalking injunction.  A modification notice that is not served on the respondent within one yearexpires.(5)  If a hearing is requested by the respondent within ten days after service, the court shallset a hearing within ten days from the date the request is filed unless the court finds compellingreasons to continue the hearing.  The hearing shall be held at the earliest possible time.  At thehearing, the burden is on the respondent to show good cause why the injunction should not bemodified to a permanent stalking injunction.(6)  If no hearing is requested by the respondent or the respondent fails to appear at thehearing, the temporary stalking injunction is automatically modified to a permanent stalkinginjunction, effective from the tenth day after service on the respondent, without further action ofthe court.(7)  If the respondent requests a hearing after the ten day period after service, the court shallset a hearing within a reasonable time from the date requested.  At the hearing, the burden is onthe respondent to show good cause why the permanent injunction should be dissolved or modified.(8)  The permanent stalking injunction may be dissolved at any time upon application ofthe petitioner to the court which granted the order.    77-3a-104.(1)  The filing fee for a petition for a temporary stalking injunction under this chapter is$50.(2)  The filing fee for an application for a renewal of the temporary stalking injunctionunder this chapter is $30.(3)  The filing fee for an application for a modification of the temporary stalking injunctionto a permanent stalking injunction under this chapter is $50.(4)  Temporary stalking injunctions, notices of renewal, and notices of modification shallbe served by a sheriff, constable, peace officer, or law enforcement officer in accordance withapplicable law.(5)  Fees for service shall be in accordance with applicable law.    77-3a-105.(1)  A peace or law enforcement officer may, with or without a warrant, arrest a person ifthe peace or law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that the person has violated atemporary or permanent stalking injunction issued pursuant to this chapter or has violated apermanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to 76-5-106.5, whether or not the violationoccurred in the presence of the officer.(2)  If a peace or law enforcement officer responds to a call alleging that stalking has beenor may be committed, the officer shall inform the potential victim in writing of the procedures andresources available for the protection of the victim, including:(a)  a stalking injunction pursuant to this chapter;(b)  the emergency telephone number for the local police agency; and(c)  telephone numbers for emergency services in the local community.(3)  A peace or law enforcement officer making an arrest pursuant to this section orenforcing an order of the court under this chapter or under Section 76-5 -106.5(6) is not civilly orcriminally liable for noncompliance with Subsection (2).(4)  A violation of a stalking injunction issued pursuant to this chapter constitutes thecriminal offense of stalking as defined in Section 76-5-106.5 and is also a violation of the stalkinginjunction.  Violations may be enforced by a civil action initiated by the petitioner, a criminalaction initiated by a prosecuting attorney, or both.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WP 6.1 HB0321.ZIP 14,203 Bytes
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 321





1     STALKING AMENDMENTS




2    1998 GENERAL SESSION


3    STATE OF UTAH


4     Sponsor: J. Brent Haymond


5    AN ACT RELATING TO THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE; CREATING A

6    PROCEDURE FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A TEMPORARY STALKING INJUNCTION;

7    PROVIDING FOR RENEWAL AND MODIFICATION; ESTABLISHING PENALTIES;

8    AND MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

9    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

10    AMENDS:

11         76-5-106.5, as last amended by Chapter 10, Laws of Utah 1997

12         77-3-1, as enacted by Chapter 15, Laws of Utah 1980

13    ENACTS:

14         77-3a-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953

15         77-3a-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953

16         77-3a-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953

17         77-3a-104, Utah Code Annotated 1953

18         77-3a-105, Utah Code Annotated 1953

19    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

20        Section 1.  Section  76-5-106.5 is amended to read:

21         76-5-106.5.  Definitions -- Crime of stalking.

22        (1)  As used in this section:

23        (a)  "Course of conduct" means repeatedly maintaining a visual or physical proximity to

24    a person or repeatedly conveying verbal or written threats or threats implied by conduct or a

25    combination thereof directed at or toward a person.

26        (b)  "Immediate family" means a spouse, parent, child, sibling, or any other person who

27    regularly resides in the household or who regularly resided in the household within the prior six


1    months.

2        (c)  "Repeatedly" means on two or more occasions.

3        (2)  A person is guilty of stalking who:

4        (a)  intentionally or knowingly engages in a course of conduct directed at a specific person

5    that would cause a reasonable person:

6        (i)  to fear bodily injury to himself or a member of his immediate family; or

7        (ii)  to suffer emotional distress to himself or a member of his immediate family;

8        (b)  has knowledge or should have knowledge that the specific person:

9        (i)  will be placed in reasonable fear of bodily injury to himself or a member of his

10    immediate family; or

11        (ii)  will suffer emotional distress or a member of his immediate family will suffer

12    emotional distress; and

13        (c)  whose conduct:

14        (i)  induces fear in the specific person of bodily injury to himself or a member of his

15    immediate family; or

16        (ii)  causes emotional distress in the specific person or a member of his immediate family.

17        (3)  Stalking is a class B misdemeanor.

18        (4)  Stalking is a class A misdemeanor if the offender:

19        (a)  has been previously convicted of an offense of stalking;

20        (b)  has been convicted in another jurisdiction of an offense that is substantially similar to

21    the offense of stalking; [or]

22        (c)  has been previously convicted of any felony offense in Utah or of any crime in another

23    jurisdiction which if committed in Utah would be a felony, in which the victim of the stalking or

24    a member of the victim's immediate family was also a victim of the previous felony offense; or

25        (d)  violated a stalking injunction issued pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 3a, Stalking

26    Injunctions.

27        (5)  Stalking is a felony of the third degree if the offender:

28        (a)  used a dangerous weapon as defined in Section 76-1-601 under circumstances not

29    amounting to a violation of Subsection 76-5-103(1)(a), or used other means or force likely to

30    produce death or serious bodily injury, in the commission of the crime of stalking;

31        (b)  has been previously convicted two or more times of the offense of stalking;

- 2 -


1        (c)  has been convicted two or more times in another jurisdiction or jurisdictions of

2    offenses that are substantially similar to the offense of stalking;

3        (d)  has been convicted two or more times, in any combination, of offenses under

4    Subsections (5) (b) and (c); [or]

5        (e)  has been previously convicted two or more times of felony offenses in Utah or of

6    crimes in another jurisdiction or jurisdictions which, if committed in Utah, would be felonies, in

7    which the victim of the stalking was also a victim of the previous felony offenses; or

8        (f)  violated a permanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to Subsection (6).

9        (6)  A conviction for stalking or a plea accepted by the court and held in abeyance for a

10    period of time shall operate as an application for a permanent criminal stalking injunction limiting

11    the contact of the defendant and the victim.

12        (a)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction shall be issued without a hearing unless the

13    defendant requests a hearing.

14        (i)  If the defendant requests a hearing, it shall be held at the time of the verdict unless the

15    victim requests otherwise.

16        (ii)  If the verdict was entered in a justice court, a certified copy of the judgment and

17    conviction or a certified copy of the court's order holding the plea in abeyance must be filed by the

18    victim in the district court as an application and request for hearing for a permanent stalking

19    injunction.

20        (b)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction may grant the following relief:

21        (i)  an order restraining the defendant from entering the residence, property, school, or

22    place of employment of the victim and requiring the defendant to stay away from any specified

23    place that is named in the order and is frequented regularly by the victim; and

24        (ii)  an order restraining the defendant from making contact with the victim, including an

25    order forbidding the defendant from personally or through an agent initiating any communication

26    likely to cause annoyance or alarm, including personal, written, or telephone contact with the

27    victim, the victim's employers, employees, fellow workers, or others with whom communication

28    would be likely to cause annoyance or alarm to the victim.

29        (c)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction may be dissolved upon application of the

30    victim to the court which granted the order.

31        (d)  Notice of permanent criminal stalking injunctions issued pursuant to this section shall

- 3 -


1    be sent by the court to the statewide warrants network or similar system.

2        (e)  A permanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to this section shall be

3    effective statewide.

4        (f)  Violation of an injunction issued pursuant to this section shall constitute an offense of

5    stalking.  Violations may be enforced in a civil action initiated by the stalking victim, a criminal

6    action initiated by a prosecuting attorney, or both.

7        (g)  Nothing in this section shall preclude the filing of a criminal information for stalking

8    based on the same act which is the basis for the violation of the permanent stalking injunction.

9        Section 2.  Section  77-3-1 is amended to read:

10         77-3-1.  Threatened offense -- Complaint.  

11        A complaint that a person has threatened to commit an offense against the person or

12    property of another, except in the case of stalking, may be made before any magistrate.  Petitions

13    alleging the commission of stalking shall be handled pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 3a, Stalking

14    Injunctions.

15        Section 3.  Section  77-3a-101 is enacted to read:

16     CHAPTER 3a.  STALKING INJUNCTIONS


17         77-3a-101.  Temporary stalking injunction -- Petition.

18        (1)  As used in this chapter, "stalking" means the crime of stalking as defined in Section

19    76-5-106.5.

20        (2)  Any person who believes that they are the victim of stalking may file a petition with

21    the district court in the district in which the petitioner resides or in which any of the events

22    occurred for a temporary injunction against the alleged stalker.  A person unable to file a petition

23    on their own, may request a third party to file a petition on their behalf.

24        (3)  The petition shall state:

25        (a)  the name of the petitioner.  The petitioner's address shall be disclosed to the court for

26    purposes of service, but, on request of the petitioner, the address may not be listed on the petition. 

27    The address shall be protected and maintained in a separate document or automated database and

28    is not subject to release, disclosure, or any form of public access except as ordered by the court for

29    good cause shown;

30        (b)  the name and address, if known, of the respondent;

31        (c)  a specific statement recounting events and dates of the actions constituting the alleged

- 4 -


1    stalking; and

2        (d)  if there is a prior court order concerning the same conduct, the name of the court in

3    which the order was rendered.

4        (4)  If the court determines that there is reason to believe that an offense of stalking has

5    occurred, an ex parte temporary injunction may be issued by the court that includes any of the

6    following:

7        (a)  either or both parties may be enjoined from committing stalking;

8        (b)  either or both parties may be restrained from coming near the residence, place of

9    employment, or school of the other party or specifically designated locations or persons; or

10        (c)  relief necessary or convenient for the protection of the petitioner and other specifically

11    designated persons under the circumstances.

12        (5)  Any time during the period in which the temporary stalking injunction is in effect, the

13    respondent is entitled to one hearing upon written request.

14        (a)  A hearing requested by the respondent shall be held within ten days from the date the

15    request is filed with the court unless the court finds compelling reasons to continue the hearing. 

16    The hearing shall then be held at the earliest possible time.

17        (b)  An ex parte temporary stalking injunction issued under this section shall state on its

18    face:

19        (i)  that the respondent is entitled to a hearing upon written request; and

20        (ii)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed.

21        (c)  At the hearing, the court may modify, revoke, or continue the injunction.

22        (6)  The temporary stalking injunction shall include the following statement: "Warning. 

23    This is an official court order.  If you disobey this order the court may find you in contempt.  You

24    may also be arrested and prosecuted for the crime of stalking and any other crime you may have

25    committed in disobeying this order."

26        (7)  The temporary stalking injunction shall be served on the respondent within one year

27    from the date it is signed.  A temporary stalking injunction is effective upon service and expires,

28    unless renewed, six months after service of the original temporary stalking injunction.

29        (8)  Within 24 hours after the affidavit or acceptance of service has been returned,

30    excluding weekends and holidays, the clerk of the court from which the temporary stalking

31    injunction was issued shall enter a copy of the temporary stalking injunction and proof of service

- 5 -


1    or acceptance of service in the statewide network for warrants or a similar system.

2        (a)  The effectiveness of a temporary stalking injunction does not depend upon its entry in

3    the statewide system and, for enforcement purposes, a certified copy of a temporary stalking

4    injunction is presumed to be a valid existing order of the court for a period of six months from the

5    date of service of the temporary stalking injunction on the respondent.

6        (b)  Any changes, renewals, or modifications of the temporary stalking injunction are

7    effective on entry by the court and shall be entered into the statewide system within 24 hours of

8    the entry, excluding weekends and holidays.

9        (9)  The temporary stalking injunction may be dissolved at any time upon application of

10    the petitioner to the court which granted it.

11        (10)  The remedies provided in this chapter for enforcement of the orders of the court are

12    in addition to any other civil and criminal remedies available.  The district court shall hear and

13    decide all matters arising pursuant to this section.

14        (11)  After a hearing with notice to the affected party, the court may enter an order

15    requiring any party to pay the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees.

16        (12)  This chapter does not apply to protective orders or ex parte protective orders issued

17    pursuant to Title 30, Chapter 6, Cohabitant Abuse Act, or to preliminary injunctions issued

18    pursuant to an action for dissolution of marriage or legal separation.

19        Section 4.  Section  77-3a-102 is enacted to read:

20         77-3a-102.  Renewal procedure.

21        (1)  A person may file an application for ex parte renewal of the temporary stalking

22    injunction with the district court that issued the original injunction.  The renewal application shall

23    be filed within 30 days prior to the expiration date of the original injunction.

24        (2)  Notice of the renewal of the temporary stalking injunction shall be served on the

25    respondent, and include the following statements:

26        (a)  the petitioner has applied for a renewal of the temporary stalking injunction;

27        (b)  the respondent has a right to request in writing a hearing on the renewal within ten days

28    of service;

29        (c)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed; and

30        (d) if the respondent fails to request a hearing in writing within ten days of service, the

31    injunction will be automatically renewed for an additional six months and no further notice will

- 6 -


1    be given to the respondent.

2        (3)  If the respondent requests a hearing in writing within ten days of service, the court shall

3    schedule a hearing within ten days of receipt of the request unless the court finds compelling

4    reasons to continue the hearing.  The hearing shall then be held at the earliest possible time.  At

5    the hearing, the burden is on the respondent to show good cause why the injunction should not be

6    renewed.

7        (4)  The renewal notice shall be served on the respondent within six months from the

8    expiration date of the original temporary stalking injunction.  A renewal notice that is not served

9    on the respondent within six months automatically expires at the end of the six months.

10        (5)  If no hearing is requested by a respondent after service of notice, the temporary

11    stalking injunction is automatically renewed for a period of six months, starting from the tenth day

12    after service on the defendant, without further action of the court.

13        Section 5.  Section  77-3a-103 is enacted to read:

14         77-3a-103.  Permanent stalking injunction.

15        (1)  A person may apply for a permanent stalking injunction if, after issuance of a

16    temporary stalking injunction, one or more renewals have been granted by the court.

17        (2)  An application for a permanent stalking injunction shall consist of a filing for a

18    modification of a temporary stalking injunction to a permanent stalking injunction.

19        (3)  Notice of the application shall be served on the respondent and state:

20        (a)  that the petitioner has applied for a modification of the temporary stalking injunction

21    to a permanent stalking injunction;

22        (b)  that the respondent has a right to request a hearing on the modification within ten days

23    of service;

24        (c)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be filed;

25        (d)  that if the respondent fails to request a hearing within ten days of service, the

26    temporary stalking injunction is automatically modified to a permanent stalking injunction without

27    further notice to the respondent; and

28        (e)  that the respondent can make a written request at any time for a hearing to show cause

29    to dissolve or modify the permanent stalking injunction.

30        (4)  The modification for a permanent stalking injunction notice shall be served on the

31    respondent within one year from the expiration date of the last renewal of the original temporary

- 7 -


1    stalking injunction.  A modification notice that is not served on the respondent within one year

2    expires.

3        (5)  If a hearing is requested by the respondent within ten days after service, the court shall

4    set a hearing within ten days from the date the request is filed unless the court finds compelling

5    reasons to continue the hearing.  The hearing shall be held at the earliest possible time.  At the

6    hearing, the burden is on the respondent to show good cause why the injunction should not be

7    modified to a permanent stalking injunction.

8        (6)  If no hearing is requested by the respondent or the respondent fails to appear at the

9    hearing, the temporary stalking injunction is automatically modified to a permanent stalking

10    injunction, effective from the tenth day after service on the respondent, without further action of

11    the court.

12        (7)  If the respondent requests a hearing after the ten day period after service, the court shall

13    set a hearing within a reasonable time from the date requested.  At the hearing, the burden is on

14    the respondent to show good cause why the permanent injunction should be dissolved or modified.

15        (8)  The permanent stalking injunction may be dissolved at any time upon application of

16    the petitioner to the court which granted the order.

17        Section 6.  Section  77-3a-104 is enacted to read:

18         77-3a-104.  Fees -- Service of process.

19        (1)  The filing fee for a petition for a temporary stalking injunction under this chapter is

20    $50.

21        (2)  The filing fee for an application for a renewal of the temporary stalking injunction

22    under this chapter is $30.

23        (3)  The filing fee for an application for a modification of the temporary stalking injunction

24    to a permanent stalking injunction under this chapter is $50.

25        (4)  Temporary stalking injunctions, notices of renewal, and notices of modification shall

26    be served by a sheriff, constable, peace officer, or law enforcement officer in accordance with

27    applicable law.

28        (5)  Fees for service shall be in accordance with applicable law.

29        Section 7.  Section  77-3a-105 is enacted to read:

30         77-3a-105.  Enforcement.

31        (1)  A peace or law enforcement officer may, with or without a warrant, arrest a person if

- 8 -


1    the peace or law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that the person has violated a

2    temporary or permanent stalking injunction issued pursuant to this chapter or has violated a

3    permanent criminal stalking injunction issued pursuant to 76-5-106.5, whether or not the violation

4    occurred in the presence of the officer.

5        (2)  If a peace or law enforcement officer responds to a call alleging that stalking has been

6    or may be committed, the officer shall inform the potential victim in writing of the procedures and

7    resources available for the protection of the victim, including:

8        (a)  a stalking injunction pursuant to this chapter;

9        (b)  the emergency telephone number for the local police agency; and

10        (c)  telephone numbers for emergency services in the local community.

11        (3)  A peace or law enforcement officer making an arrest pursuant to this section or

12    enforcing an order of the court under this chapter or under Section 76-5 -106.5(6) is not civilly or

13    criminally liable for noncompliance with Subsection (2).

14        (4)  A violation of a stalking injunction issued pursuant to this chapter constitutes the

15    criminal offense of stalking as defined in Section 76-5-106.5 and is also a violation of the stalking

16    injunction.  Violations may be enforced by a civil action initiated by the petitioner, a criminal

17    action initiated by a prosecuting attorney, or both.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   1-26-98  9:02 AM


A limited legal review of this bill raises no obvious constitutional or statutory concerns.

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel


- 9 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







