Sponsors: []Modifications:     63M-1-2508.(1)  The Legislature finds that:(a)  the people of the several states comprising the United States of America created thefederal government to be their agent for certain enumerated purposes, and nothing more;(b)  the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States defines the totalscope of federal power as being that which has been delegated by the people of the severalstates to the federal government, and all power not delegated to the federal government in theConstitution of the United States is reserved to the states respectively, or to the peoplethemselves; and(c)  the assumption of power that the federal government has made by enacting thePatient Protection and Affordable Care Act interferes with the right of the people of the state ofUtah to regulate health care as they see fit, and does not comply with the assurance in TheFederalist Papers, No. 45 (James Madison), that the "powers delegated" to the federalgovernment are "few and defined," while those of the states are "numerous and indefinite".(2)  The Legislature declares that the federal law known as the Patient Protection andAffordable Care Act is not authorized by the Constitution of the United States and violates theconstitution's true meaning and intent as given by the founders and ratifiers of the constitution,and is hereby declared to be invalid in this state, shall not be recognized by this state, isspecifically rejected by this state, and shall be considered null and void and of no effect in thisstate.aff'dFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WordPerfect HB0391.ZIP
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 391





            
1

    
 NULLIFICATION OF THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND

            
2

    
 AFFORDABLE CARE ACT



            
3

    
2013 GENERAL SESSION

            
4

    
STATE OF UTAH

            
5

    


 Chief Sponsor:  Jacob L. Anderegg



            
6

    



Senate Sponsor:  






____________





            
7

    

            
8

    
 LONG TITLE
            
9

    
 General Description:
            
10

    
    This bill amends the governor's programs related to the Health System Reform Act.
            
11

    
 Highlighted Provisions:
            
12

    
    This bill:
            
13

    
    .    declares the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act null and void in the state of
            
14

    
Utah.
            
15

    
 Money Appropriated in this Bill:
            
16

    
    None
            
17

    
 Other Special Clauses:
            
18

    
    None
            
19

    
 Utah Code Sections Affected:
            
20

    
ENACTS:
            
21

    
     63M-1-2508, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            
22

    

            
23

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            
24

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
63M-1-2508

 is enacted to read:
            
25

    
     63M-1-2508.    Nullification of federal health care reform.
            
26

    
    (1)  The Legislature finds that:
            
27

    
    (a)  the people of the several states comprising the United States of America created the

            
28


    
federal government to be their agent for certain enumerated purposes, and nothing more;
            
29

    
    (b)  the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States defines the total
            
30

    
scope of federal power as being that which has been delegated by the people of the several
            
31

    
states to the federal government, and all power not delegated to the federal government in the
            
32

    
Constitution of the United States is reserved to the states respectively, or to the people
            
33

    
themselves; and
            
34

    
    (c)  the assumption of power that the federal government has made by enacting the
            
35

    
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act interferes with the right of the people of the state of
            
36

    
Utah to regulate health care as they see fit, and does not comply with the assurance in The
            
37

    
Federalist Papers, No. 45 (James Madison), that the "powers delegated" to the federal
            
38

    
government are "few and defined," while those of the states are "numerous and indefinite".
            
39

    
    (2)  The Legislature declares that the federal law known as the Patient Protection and
            
40

    
Affordable Care Act is not authorized by the Constitution of the United States and violates the
            
41

    
constitution's true meaning and intent as given by the founders and ratifiers of the constitution,
            
42

    
and is hereby declared to be invalid in this state, shall not be recognized by this state, is
            
43

    
specifically rejected by this state, and shall be considered null and void and of no effect in this
            
44

    
state.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   2-28-13  6:17 AM

As required by legislative rule and practice, the Office of Legislative Research and General
Counsel provides the following legislative review note to assist the Legislature in making its
own determination as to the constitutionality of the bill. The note is based on an analysis of
relevant state and federal constitutional law as applied to the bill. The note is not written for the
purpose of influencing whether the bill should become law, but is written to provide
information relevant to legislators' consideration of this bill. The note is not a substitute for the
judgment of the judiciary, which has authority to determine the constitutionality of a law in the
context of a specific case.

This bill declares that the Affordable Care Act, which was passed by Congress, signed by the
President, and major portions of which were upheld as constitutional by a majority of the
United States Supreme Court, is invalid and without effect in the state of Utah because it
violates the true meaning of the Constitution of the United States.

The United States Supreme Court has determined that at least parts of the Affordable Care Act

are constitutional. See Nat'l Federation of Business v. Sebelius, Sec'y of Health and Human

Services, 132 S. Ct. 2566 (2012). Specifically, the Court determined that the individual
mandate and optional expansion of Medicaid was constitutional. There is a high probability
that a court would rule that the state's nullification of the Affordable Care Act is without effect
because a state cannot circumvent a federal court ruling. In Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U.S. 1, 18-19
(1958), the Supreme Court asserted that if "the legislatures of the several states may, at will,
annul the judgments of the courts of the United States, and destroy the rights acquired under
those judgments, the constitution itself becomes a solemn mockery."

The ability of the state to nullify the portions of the Affordable Care Act that have not been
ruled upon by a court is uncertain. The asserted power to nullify federal statutes is largely
based on the compact theory of the union which argues that the United States was formed by a
compact between and agreed upon by the states.  In Bush v. Orleans Parish School Bd., 188 F.
Supp. 916, 923 (E.D. La. 1960) aff'd, 365 U.S. 569 (1961), the court admitted that the compact
theory may have had some validity when the states were operating under the Articles of
Confederation, but that upon "their [the Article's] failure, however, 'in Order to form a more
perfect Union,' the people, not the states, of this country ordained and established the
Constitution." Bush, 188 F. Supp. at 923. With the disavowal by the federal courts of the
compact theory, the retention by the states of the authority to nullify federal statutes is likely to
be in question.

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







