Sponsors: []Modifications:     39-6-14.(1)  The governor and the adjutant general of Utah may prescribe regulations governingthe administration of nonjudicial punishment.(2)  A service member subject to this chapter may request trial by military court in lieuof nonjudicial punishment at any time prior to imposition of nonjudicial punishment.(a)  Upon receipt of a timely request for trial by military court in lieu of nonjudicialpunishment, the commanding officer may grant the request, or deny the request and continuewith nonjudicial punishment proceedings.  If the commander denies the member's request fortrial by military court, the commander may not impose limitations on personal liberty as apunishment under nonjudicial punishment proceedings.(b)  Denial of a request for trial by military court in lieu of nonjudicial punishment doesnot create a private right of action and is not subject to judicial review.(3)  Any commanding officer in the Utah National Guard may, in addition to areprimand, impose one or more of the punishments under this section without the interventionof a military court.(4)  Punishment imposed by the governor, a general officer, or a full colonel uponofficers within the general officer's or full colonel's command may include:(a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for three months;and(b)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from duty, for notmore than 60 consecutive days.(5)  Punishment imposed by the governor, a general officer, or a full colonel uponenlisted personnel within the general officer's or full colonel's command may include:(a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two months;(b)  reduction of one or more pay grades if the imposing commander holds promotionauthority over the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted;(c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 60 consecutivedays; and(d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from duty, for notmore than 60 consecutive days.(6)  Punishment imposed by a commander of the grade of lieutenant colonel or majorupon enlisted personnel within the lieutenant colonel's or major's command may include:(a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two months;(b)  reduction of no more than two pay grades if the imposing commander holdspromotion authority over the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted;(c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 45 consecutivedays; and(d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension of duty, for notmore than 45 consecutive days.(7)  Punishment imposed by a commander of the grade of captain or lieutenant uponenlisted personnel within the captain's or lieutenant's command may include:(a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay for one month;(b)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 30 consecutivedays;(c)  restriction to certain specified limits, with or without suspension from duty, for notmore than 30 consecutive days; and(d)  reduction of one pay grade if the imposing commander holds promotion authorityover the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted.(8)  If the imposed punishment includes both extra duties and restriction to specificareas, the commander may not impose the maximum amount of time designated for each ofthese punishments but shall apportion these punishments as if they were imposedconsecutively.(9) (a)  The imposing commander or a successor in command may, at any time, suspendby probation:(i)  all or any part of the amount of the unexecuted punishment; and(ii)  a reduction in grade or a forfeiture imposed, whether or not executed.(b)  The imposing commander or a successor in command shall set the terms ofprobation for any suspended punishment.(c)  The imposing commander may, at any time, remit or mitigate any part or amount ofthe unexecuted punishment.  The imposing commander may also set aside in whole or in partthe punishment, whether executed or unexecuted, and restore all rights, privileges, and affectedproperty.(d)  The imposing commander may mitigate reduction in grade to forfeiture of pay.(e)  The imposing commander may not mitigate punishment for a greater period of timethan the original punishment.(f)  When mitigating a reduction in grade to forfeiture of pay, the amount of theforfeiture may not exceed the maximum allowable forfeiture the imposing commander couldhave originally imposed.(10) (a)  A service member punished under this section may appeal to the next superiorcommander in the service member's chain of command.  The next superior commander shallconduct a de novo review of both the findings and punishment under procedures provided byregulation.  The next superior commander may modify or set aside the findings or punishment,having the same options afforded the imposing commander as described in this section.  In nocase may the next superior commander increase the severity of the findings or the amount ofpunishment originally imposed.(b)  If two levels of command exist above the imposing commander, the servicemember, having exhausted the service member's first level of appeal, may appeal to the nextsuperior commander.  If the matter originates with the governor, the adjutant general, or onelevel of command below the adjutant general, no right to a second appeal exists.  The decisionof the adjutant general on an appeal of nonjudicial punishment is final and is not subject tofurther appeal or judicial review.(c)  The decision of the governor or the adjutant general to impose nonjudicialpunishment upon a service member is final and is not subject to further appeal or judicialreview.(d)  The imposing commander shall promptly forward any appeal to the next superiorcommander.  During the course of the appeal, the imposing commander may require theappellant to submit to the imposed punishment.(11)  A superior commander shall first obtain a legal review from a judge advocate ofthe Utah National Guard before acting on an appeal from any of the following imposedpunishments:(a)  fine or forfeiture of more than seven day's pay;(b)  reduction of one or more pay grades;(c)  extra duties for more than 14 days; or(d)  restriction for more than 14 days.(12)  Punishments imposed under this section, except forfeiture of pay, may not extendbeyond the termination of the duty status of the punished individual.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Introduced WordPerfect HB0301.ZIP
[Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


H.B. 301





            
1

    
 NATIONAL GUARD - NONJUDICIAL PUNISHMENT



            
2

    
2012 GENERAL SESSION

            
3

    
STATE OF UTAH

            
4

    


 Chief Sponsor:  Val L. Peterson



            
5

    



Senate Sponsor:  






____________





            
6

    

            
7

    
 LONG TITLE
            
8

    
 General Description:
            
9

    
    This bill makes clarifying changes to the nonjudicial punishment section of the Uniform
            
10

    
Code of Military Justice.
            
11

    
 Highlighted Provisions:
            
12

    
    This bill:
            
13

    
    .    specifies the commanders' parameters for nonjudicial punishment;
            
14

    
    .    provides guidelines for nonjudicial punishment for enlisted personnel and officers;
            
15

    
    .    sets out appeal avenues and limits; and
            
16

    
    .    directs who can mitigate nonjudicial punishment.
            
17

    
 Money Appropriated in this Bill:
            
18

    
    None
            
19

    
 Other Special Clauses:
            
20

    
    None
            
21

    
 Utah Code Sections Affected:
            
22

    
REPEALS AND REENACTS:
            
23

    
     39-6-14, as last amended by Laws of Utah 1989, Chapter 15
            
24

    
REPEALS:
            
25

    
     39-6-13, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2008, Chapter 287
            
26

    

            
27

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

            
28


    
    Section 1.  
Section  
39-6-14

 is repealed and reenacted to read:
            
29

    
     39-6-14.  Nonjudicial punishment.
            
30

    
    (1)  The governor and the adjutant general of Utah may prescribe regulations governing
            
31

    
the administration of nonjudicial punishment.
            
32

    
    (2)  A service member subject to this chapter may request trial by military court in lieu
            
33

    
of nonjudicial punishment at any time prior to imposition of nonjudicial punishment.
            
34

    
    (a)  Upon receipt of a timely request for trial by military court in lieu of nonjudicial
            
35

    
punishment, the commanding officer may grant the request, or deny the request and continue
            
36

    
with nonjudicial punishment proceedings.  If the commander denies the member's request for
            
37

    
trial by military court, the commander may not impose limitations on personal liberty as a
            
38

    
punishment under nonjudicial punishment proceedings.
            
39

    
    (b)  Denial of a request for trial by military court in lieu of nonjudicial punishment does
            
40

    
not create a private right of action and is not subject to judicial review.
            
41

    
    (3)  Any commanding officer in the Utah National Guard may, in addition to a
            
42

    
reprimand, impose one or more of the punishments under this section without the intervention
            
43

    
of a military court.
            
44

    
    (4)  Punishment imposed by the governor, a general officer, or a full colonel upon
            
45

    
officers within the general officer's or full colonel's command may include:
            
46

    
    (a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for three months;
            
47

    
and
            
48

    
    (b)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from duty, for not
            
49

    
more than 60 consecutive days.
            
50

    
    (5)  Punishment imposed by the governor, a general officer, or a full colonel upon
            
51

    
enlisted personnel within the general officer's or full colonel's command may include:
            
52

    
    (a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two months;
            
53

    
    (b)  reduction of one or more pay grades if the imposing commander holds promotion
            
54

    
authority over the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted;
            
55

    
    (c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 60 consecutive
            
56

    
days; and
            
57

    
    (d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from duty, for not
            
58

    
more than 60 consecutive days.

            
59


    
    (6)  Punishment imposed by a commander of the grade of lieutenant colonel or major
            
60

    
upon enlisted personnel within the lieutenant colonel's or major's command may include:
            
61

    
    (a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two months;
            
62

    
    (b)  reduction of no more than two pay grades if the imposing commander holds
            
63

    
promotion authority over the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted;
            
64

    
    (c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 45 consecutive
            
65

    
days; and
            
66

    
    (d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension of duty, for not
            
67

    
more than 45 consecutive days.
            
68

    
    (7)  Punishment imposed by a commander of the grade of captain or lieutenant upon
            
69

    
enlisted personnel within the captain's or lieutenant's command may include:
            
70

    
    (a)  forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay for one month;
            
71

    
    (b)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 30 consecutive
            
72

    
days;
            
73

    
    (c)  restriction to certain specified limits, with or without suspension from duty, for not
            
74

    
more than 30 consecutive days; and
            
75

    
    (d)  reduction of one pay grade if the imposing commander holds promotion authority
            
76

    
over the grade from which the enlisted person was demoted.
            
77

    
    (8)  If the imposed punishment includes both extra duties and restriction to specific
            
78

    
areas, the commander may not impose the maximum amount of time designated for each of
            
79

    
these punishments but shall apportion these punishments as if they were imposed
            
80

    
consecutively.
            
81

    
    (9) (a)  The imposing commander or a successor in command may, at any time, suspend
            
82

    
by probation:
            
83

    
    (i)  all or any part of the amount of the unexecuted punishment; and
            
84

    
    (ii)  a reduction in grade or a forfeiture imposed, whether or not executed.
            
85

    
    (b)  The imposing commander or a successor in command shall set the terms of
            
86

    
probation for any suspended punishment.
            
87

    
    (c)  The imposing commander may, at any time, remit or mitigate any part or amount of
            
88

    
the unexecuted punishment.  The imposing commander may also set aside in whole or in part
            
89

    
the punishment, whether executed or unexecuted, and restore all rights, privileges, and affected

            
90


    
property.
            
91

    
    (d)  The imposing commander may mitigate reduction in grade to forfeiture of pay.
            
92

    
    (e)  The imposing commander may not mitigate punishment for a greater period of time
            
93

    
than the original punishment.
            
94

    
    (f)  When mitigating a reduction in grade to forfeiture of pay, the amount of the
            
95

    
forfeiture may not exceed the maximum allowable forfeiture the imposing commander could
            
96

    
have originally imposed.
            
97

    
    (10) (a)  A service member punished under this section may appeal to the next superior
            
98

    
commander in the service member's chain of command.  The next superior commander shall
            
99

    
conduct a de novo review of both the findings and punishment under procedures provided by
            
100

    
regulation.  The next superior commander may modify or set aside the findings or punishment,
            
101

    
having the same options afforded the imposing commander as described in this section.  In no
            
102

    
case may the next superior commander increase the severity of the findings or the amount of
            
103

    
punishment originally imposed.
            
104

    
    (b)  If two levels of command exist above the imposing commander, the service
            
105

    
member, having exhausted the service member's first level of appeal, may appeal to the next
            
106

    
superior commander.  If the matter originates with the governor, the adjutant general, or one
            
107

    
level of command below the adjutant general, no right to a second appeal exists.  The decision
            
108

    
of the adjutant general on an appeal of nonjudicial punishment is final and is not subject to
            
109

    
further appeal or judicial review.
            
110

    
    (c)  The decision of the governor or the adjutant general to impose nonjudicial
            
111

    
punishment upon a service member is final and is not subject to further appeal or judicial
            
112

    
review.
            
113

    
    (d)  The imposing commander shall promptly forward any appeal to the next superior
            
114

    
commander.  During the course of the appeal, the imposing commander may require the
            
115

    
appellant to submit to the imposed punishment.
            
116

    
    (11)  A superior commander shall first obtain a legal review from a judge advocate of
            
117

    
the Utah National Guard before acting on an appeal from any of the following imposed
            
118

    
punishments:
            
119

    
    (a)  fine or forfeiture of more than seven day's pay;
            
120

    
    (b)  reduction of one or more pay grades;

            
121


    
    (c)  extra duties for more than 14 days; or
            
122

    
    (d)  restriction for more than 14 days.
            
123

    
    (12)  Punishments imposed under this section, except forfeiture of pay, may not extend
            
124

    
beyond the termination of the duty status of the punished individual.
            
125

    
    Section 2.  Repealer.
            
126

    
    This bill repeals:
            
127

    
    Section  39-6-13,  Limits on nonjudicial punishment.




 Legislative Review Note
    as of   1-24-12  2:57 PM

 Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







