Sponsors: []Modifications: thatthat(3)  snowmobiles that are owned by a nonresident;(4)(5)(6)    41-22-35.(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), any nonresident owning a snowmobile whooperates or gives another person permission to operate the snowmobile on any public land, trail,street, or highway in this state shall pay an annual snowmobile user fee.(b)  A snowmobile registered in a state that offers reciprocal operating privileges to Utahresidents pursuant to rules of the board is exempt from the annual snowmobile user fee.(2)  The snowmobile user fee shall be $30.(3)  The board may establish procedures for the payment of snowmobile user fees by rule.(4)  The person paying the fee shall receive a decal indicating the fee has been paid.  Thedecal shall be displayed on the snowmobile in accordance with rules of the board.(5) (a)  Snowmobile user fees may be collected by the division or agents of the division.(b)  An agent shall retain 10% of all snowmobile user fees collected.(c)  The division may require agents to obtain a bond in a reasonable amount.(d)  On or before the tenth day of each month, each agent shall:(i)  report all sales to the division; and(ii)  submit all snowmobile user fees collected less the remuneration provided in Subsection(5)(b).(e) (i)  If an agent fails to pay the amount due, the division may assess a penalty of 20% ofthe amount due.(ii)  Delinquent payments shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month.(iii)  If the amount due is not paid because of bad faith or fraud, the division shall assess apenalty of 100% of the total amount due together with interest.(f)  All fees collected by an agent, except the remuneration provided in Subsection (5)(b),shall:(i)  be kept separate and apart from the private funds of the agent; and(ii)  belong to the state of Utah.(g)  An agent may not issue a snowmobile user fee decal to any person unless the personfurnishes evidence that the person is a nonresident.(h)  A violation of any provision of this Subsection (5) is a class B misdemeanor and maybe cause for revocation of the agent authorization.(6)  Revenue generated by snowmobile user fees shall be:(a)  deposited in the Off-highway Vehicle Account created in Section 

41-22-19

; and(b)  used for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of snowmobile trails.This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0014.ZIP 8,122 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 14 Enrolled





            

    
 SNOWMOBILE USER FEE



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor: Lorin V. Jones

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES; REQUIRING NONRESIDENT
            

    
OWNERS OF SNOWMOBILES TO PAY A SNOWMOBILE USER FEE AND
            

    
TERMINATING THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT FOR SNOWMOBILES
            

    
OWNED BY NONRESIDENTS; PROVIDING FOR THE COLLECTION OF FEES
            

    
AND ISSUANCE OF DECALS BY AGENTS OF THE DIVISION OF PARKS AND
            

    
RECREATION; PROVIDING A CRIMINAL PENALTY; PROVIDING FOR THE
            

    
DEPOSIT AND USE OF FEE REVENUE; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     41-22-9, as last amended by Chapter 21, Laws of Utah 1989
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     41-22-35, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
41-22-9

 is amended to read:
            

    
     41-22-9.  Vehicles exempt from registration.  
            

    
    The following off-highway vehicles are exempt from the registration requirements of this
            

    
chapter:
            

    
    (1)  vehicles [which] that are currently registered for highway use, have a valid motor
            

    
vehicle safety inspection sticker or certificate, and on which the required safety equipment has not
            

    
been subsequently modified;
            

    
    (2)  off-highway vehicles [which] that are not in the state more than 14 days in any year
            

    
and are owned by a nonresident;
            

    
    (3)  snowmobiles that are owned by a nonresident;
            

    
    [(3)] (4)  off-highway vehicles sold by a dealer to a person who is not a resident of this
            

    
state;

            


    
    [(4)] (5)  off-highway implements of husbandry operated in the manner prescribed by
            

    
Subsections 

41-22-5.5

(3) through (5); and
            

    
    [(5)] (6)  new off-highway vehicles being transported to an off-highway vehicle dealership
            

    
by the dealer, employee of the dealership, or agent for the dealership.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
41-22-35

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     41-22-35.  Snowmobile user fee -- Decal -- Agents -- Penalty for fraudulent issuance of
            

    
 decal -- Deposit and use of fee revenue.
            

    
    (1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), any nonresident owning a snowmobile who
            

    
operates or gives another person permission to operate the snowmobile on any public land, trail,
            

    
street, or highway in this state shall pay an annual snowmobile user fee.
            

    
    (b)  A snowmobile registered in a state that offers reciprocal operating privileges to Utah
            

    
residents pursuant to rules of the board is exempt from the annual snowmobile user fee.
            

    
    (2)  The snowmobile user fee shall be $30.
            

    
    (3)  The board may establish procedures for the payment of snowmobile user fees by rule.
            

    
    (4)  The person paying the fee shall receive a decal indicating the fee has been paid.  The
            

    
decal shall be displayed on the snowmobile in accordance with rules of the board.
            

    
    (5) (a)  Snowmobile user fees may be collected by the division or agents of the division.
            

    
    (b)  An agent shall retain 10% of all snowmobile user fees collected.
            

    
    (c)  The division may require agents to obtain a bond in a reasonable amount.
            

    
    (d)  On or before the tenth day of each month, each agent shall:
            

    
    (i)  report all sales to the division; and
            

    
    (ii)  submit all snowmobile user fees collected less the remuneration provided in Subsection
            

    
(5)(b).
            

    
    (e) (i)  If an agent fails to pay the amount due, the division may assess a penalty of 20% of
            

    
the amount due.
            

    
    (ii)  Delinquent payments shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month.
            

    
    (iii)  If the amount due is not paid because of bad faith or fraud, the division shall assess a
            

    
penalty of 100% of the total amount due together with interest.

            


    
    (f)  All fees collected by an agent, except the remuneration provided in Subsection (5)(b),
            

    
shall:
            

    
    (i)  be kept separate and apart from the private funds of the agent; and
            

    
    (ii)  belong to the state of Utah.
            

    
    (g)  An agent may not issue a snowmobile user fee decal to any person unless the person
            

    
furnishes evidence that the person is a nonresident.
            

    
    (h)  A violation of any provision of this Subsection (5) is a class B misdemeanor and may
            

    
be cause for revocation of the agent authorization.
            

    
    (6)  Revenue generated by snowmobile user fees shall be:
            

    
    (a)  deposited in the Off-highway Vehicle Account created in Section 

41-22-19

; and
            

    
    (b)  used for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of snowmobile trails.
            

    
    Section 3.   Effective date.
            

    
    This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







