Sponsors: []Modifications:     49-6a-101.This chapter is known as the "Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Act."    49-6a-102.The purpose of this chapter is to establish a retirement plan for judges which provides thefollowing:(1)  a uniform system of membership;(2)  retirement requirements;(3)  benefits for judges;(4)  funding on an actuarially sound basis;(5)  contributions made entirely by employers; and(6)  economy and efficiency in public service.    49-6a-103.As used in this chapter:(1) (a)  "Compensation," "salary," or "wages" means the total amount of payments which arecurrently includable in gross income made by an employer to an employee for services rendered tothe employer.(b)  "Compensation" includes:(i)  performance-based bonuses;(ii)  cost-of-living adjustments;(iii)  payments subject to Social Security deductions;(iv)  any payments in excess of the maximum amount subject to deduction under SocialSecurity law; and(v)  amounts which the employee authorizes to be deducted or reduced for salary deferral orother authorized benefit programs.(c)  "Compensation" for purposes of this chapter may not exceed the amount allowed underInternal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17).(d)  "Compensation," "salary," or "wages" does not include:(i)  the monetary value of remuneration paid in kind, such as a residence or use of equipment;(ii)  all contributions made by an employer under any plan for the benefit of a participant;(iii)  salary paid to an employee working under the minimum number of hours required formembership;(iv)  salary paid to a temporary or exempt employee;(v)  payments upon termination or any other special payments including early retirementinducements; or(vi)  uniform, travel, or similar allowances.(2)  "Final average salary" means the amount computed by averaging the highest two yearsof annual compensation preceding retirement subject to Subsections (a) and (b).(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (b), the percentage increase in annual compensationin any one of the years used may not exceed the previous year's salary by more than 10% plus acost-of-living adjustment equal to the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during theprevious year, as measured by the Consumer Price Index prepared by the United States Bureau ofLabor Statistics.(b)  In cases where the employing unit provides acceptable documentation to the board, thelimitation in Subsection (a) may be exceeded if:(i)  the member has transferred from another employing unit; or(ii)  the member has been promoted to a new position.(3)  "Normal retirement age" means the age of 65 years.(4)  "Years of service" or "service years" mean the number of periods, each to consist of 12full months or as determined by the board, whether consecutive or not, during which a member wasemployed to perform services for the employer.    49-6a-201.There is created for justices and judges of courts of record, the Judges' NoncontributoryRetirement System.    49-6a-202.There is created the "Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Trust Fund" for the purpose ofpaying the benefits and costs of administering this system.  The fund shall consist of all money andassets transferred to it under any terminated system, the money paid into it under this system,whether in the form of cash, securities, or other assets, and of all money received from any othersource. Custody, management, and investment of the fund shall be governed by Title 49, Chapter1.    49-6a-203.(1)  Justices and judges of courts of record appointed after July 1, 1997, shall automaticallybecome members of this system.(2)  Any justice or judge appointed prior to July 1, 1997, may either become a member of thisnoncontributory system or remain a member of the Judges' Retirement System established underTitle 49, Chapter 6, Judges' Retirement Act, by following the procedures established by the boardpursuant to this chapter.(3)  Justices and judges may only elect to participate in the noncontributory system underSubsection (2) prior to January 1, 1998.    49-6a-301.(1)  The system shall be maintained on a financially and actuarially sound basis by meansof contributions and fees made entirely by the employer.(2)  Fees and contributions shall be remitted monthly to the retirement office.(3)  The board shall report to the governor, the Legislature, and the employing unit thecontribution rates and any adjustments necessary to maintain the system on a financially andactuarially sound basis, and the employer shall pay the certified contribution rates.    49-6a-401.(1) (a)  Any judge who qualifies for service retirement may retire by applying in writing tothe retirement office stating the proposed effective date of retirement, which may not be more than90 days before or after the date of application.(b)  The effective date shall be the 1st or 16th day of the month, as selected by the member,but must be after the last day of actual work.(c)  The member shall actually terminate employment and provide evidence of termination.(2)  The member is qualified to retire upon termination of services on or before the effectivedate of retirement if one of the following requirements on that date is met:(a)  the member has been credited with at least six years of service and has attained an ageof 70 years or more;(b)  the member has been credited with at least ten years of service and has attained an ageof 62 years or more;(c)  the member has been credited with at least 20 years of service and has attained an ageof 55 years or more; or(d)  the member has been credited with at least 25 years of service.    49-6a-402.Upon the service retirement of a justice or judge under Section 49-6a-401, the justice orjudge shall receive a retirement allowance determined as follows:(1)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 62 years and has ten or more years ofjudicial service credit, the retirement allowance is a monthly amount equal to:(a)  5% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicialservice credited, limited to ten years, plus(b)  2.25% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicialservice credited in excess of ten years but less than 20 years, plus(c)  1% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicialservice credited in excess of 20 years.  Total monthly retirement allowance to which a justice orjudge is entitled may not exceed 75% of the final average monthly salary.(2)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 70 years and has six years or more ofjudicial service credit, the retirement allowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1).(3)  If the justice or judge has 25 years or more of judicial service credit, the retirementallowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1).(4)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 55 years and has 20 years or more ofjudicial service credit, the retirement allowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1)reduced to an amount payable monthly for life which would be the same actuarial equivalent basedon the justice's or judge's age at retirement as would be the value of the retirement pay based on lifeexpectancy if the justice or judge were 65 years of age.(5)  All members and their beneficiaries, as of July 1, 1983, shall receive an increase inmonthly benefits in the amount of $120 for each member or $60 for each beneficiary.  The cost ofimplementing this subsection shall be shared equally between the employer and employee.(6)  Years of service include any fractions of years of service to which the members may beentitled.  Notwithstanding the formula for computing the service retirement allowance for membersparticipating in the program, the board shall, in as far as practical, adjust the percentage factor usedin the service retirement allowance formula, in its application to the years of service of a retiringmember to a percentage amount which maintains the retirement trust account on an actuarially soundbasis if the employer contributions, retirement court fees, and earnings of the fund are insufficientto fund the benefits provided for members participating in the program.    49-6a-501.(1)  There shall be computed and paid from the Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Fundan annual cost-of-living allowance adjustment to all retired members after one year of retirementequal to the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during the preceding year measured bythe Consumers Price Index.  The cost-of-living adjustment shall be limited each year to a maximumof 4% of the retired member's or beneficiary's monthly retirement allowance.  Decreases in thepurchasing power of the dollar in excess of 4% annually shall be accumulated over two or moreyears and used in whole or in part in making subsequent annual adjustments when the cost-of-livingadjustment is less than 4%.(2)  The cost-of-living adjustment is based upon the retirant's or beneficiary's allowance, issubject to reduction if the cost-of-living shows a decline of 4% for more than one year, and appliesto any cost-of-living increase.  These reductions may not exceed the rate of 2% per year based uponthe established retirement allowance base.  Payments made under this section are a part of the retiredmember's allowance. The payments and subsequent adjustments as prescribed for the retirant shalllikewise apply to any beneficiary who is paid an allowance.(3)  Funds for the benefits provided by this section shall be obtained from contributions andfees paid on covered salaries.    49-6a-601.(1)  Upon the receipt of acceptable proof of death of a member or an inactive member beforethe effective date of retirement, the dependent spouse shall have the choice of the following deathbenefits:(a)  a refund of accumulated contributions, if any, including interest, plus 65% of the judge'sfinal average salary on a yearly rate; or(b)  a monthly allowance equal to 65% of the monthly allowance computed on the basis ofthe service retirement allowance formula, based upon the years of service and final average salary,but disregarding early retirement reductions.(2)  The pension may not exceed an amount which would have been paid if the deceasedjudge served to age 70 and had the retirement allowance then computed on the basis of final averagesalary under Section 49-6a-402.    49-6a-602.(1)  The death benefit payable to a dependent spouse after the death of a retired member ofthis system is a monthly amount equal to 65% of the allowance which was being paid to the retiredmember at the time of death.  The effective date of the accrual of this pension is the first day of themonth following the month in which the retirant died.  Payment of the full pension for this lattermonth shall be made to the dependent beneficiary in lieu of the deceased member.(2)  A member may elect to increase the surviving spouse's monthly allowance up to 75%of a monthly allowance computed on the basis of the service retirement allowance formula underSection 49-6a-402.  The amount payable to the member upon retirement would be reduced to anamount payable monthly for life, which would reflect the actuarial equivalent necessary to fund theincreased percentage for the surviving spouse above 65%.This act takes effect on July 1, 1997.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0083.ZIP 11,947 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 83 Enrolled








 
    


     JUDGES NONCONTRIBUTORY


     RETIREMENT SYSTEM




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Craig A. Peterson


    AN ACT RELATING TO PENSIONS; CREATING A NONCONTRIBUTORY RETIREMENT

    SYSTEM FOR JUDGES; PROVIDING DEFINITIONS; PROVIDING ELIGIBILITY

    AND CONVERSION REQUIREMENTS; ESTABLISHING THAT CONTRIBUTIONS

    TO THE SYSTEM ARE TO BE MADE ENTIRELY BY THE EMPLOYER;

    PROVIDING FOR BENEFITS; PROVIDING FOR ADMINISTRATION OF THE

    SYSTEM; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    ENACTS:

         49-6a-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-201, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-202, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-203, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-401, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-402, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-501, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-601, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         49-6a-602, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  49-6a-101 is enacted to read:

     CHAPTER 6a.  JUDGES' NONCONTRIBUTORY RETIREMENT ACT


     Part 1.  General Provisions


         49-6a-101.  Title.

        This chapter is known as the "Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Act."

        Section 2.  Section  49-6a-102 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-102.  Purpose.

        The purpose of this chapter is to establish a retirement plan for judges which provides the

    following:

        (1)  a uniform system of membership;

        (2)  retirement requirements;

        (3)  benefits for judges;

        (4)  funding on an actuarially sound basis;

        (5)  contributions made entirely by employers; and

        (6)  economy and efficiency in public service.

        Section 3.  Section  49-6a-103 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-103.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1) (a)  "Compensation," "salary," or "wages" means the total amount of payments which are

    currently includable in gross income made by an employer to an employee for services rendered to

    the employer.

        (b)  "Compensation" includes:

        (i)  performance-based bonuses;

        (ii)  cost-of-living adjustments;

        (iii)  payments subject to Social Security deductions;

        (iv)  any payments in excess of the maximum amount subject to deduction under Social

    Security law; and

        (v)  amounts which the employee authorizes to be deducted or reduced for salary deferral or

    other authorized benefit programs.

        (c)  "Compensation" for purposes of this chapter may not exceed the amount allowed under

- 2 -


    Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17).

        (d)  "Compensation," "salary," or "wages" does not include:

        (i)  the monetary value of remuneration paid in kind, such as a residence or use of equipment;

        (ii)  all contributions made by an employer under any plan for the benefit of a participant;

        (iii)  salary paid to an employee working under the minimum number of hours required for

    membership;

        (iv)  salary paid to a temporary or exempt employee;

        (v)  payments upon termination or any other special payments including early retirement

    inducements; or

        (vi)  uniform, travel, or similar allowances.

        (2)  "Final average salary" means the amount computed by averaging the highest two years

    of annual compensation preceding retirement subject to Subsections (a) and (b).

        (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (b), the percentage increase in annual compensation

    in any one of the years used may not exceed the previous year's salary by more than 10% plus a

    cost-of-living adjustment equal to the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during the

    previous year, as measured by the Consumer Price Index prepared by the United States Bureau of

    Labor Statistics.

        (b)  In cases where the employing unit provides acceptable documentation to the board, the

    limitation in Subsection (a) may be exceeded if:

        (i)  the member has transferred from another employing unit; or

        (ii)  the member has been promoted to a new position.

        (3)  "Normal retirement age" means the age of 65 years.

        (4)  "Years of service" or "service years" mean the number of periods, each to consist of 12

    full months or as determined by the board, whether consecutive or not, during which a member was

    employed to perform services for the employer.

        Section 4.  Section  49-6a-201 is enacted to read:

     Part 2.  The System and Fund


         49-6a-201.  Creation of system.

- 3 -


        There is created for justices and judges of courts of record, the Judges' Noncontributory

    Retirement System.

        Section 5.  Section  49-6a-202 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-202.  Creation of trust fund.

        There is created the "Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Trust Fund" for the purpose of

    paying the benefits and costs of administering this system.  The fund shall consist of all money and

    assets transferred to it under any terminated system, the money paid into it under this system,

    whether in the form of cash, securities, or other assets, and of all money received from any other

    source. Custody, management, and investment of the fund shall be governed by Title 49, Chapter

    1.

        Section 6.  Section  49-6a-203 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-203.  Eligibility for membership in the system -- Conversion.

        (1)  Justices and judges of courts of record appointed after July 1, 1997, shall automatically

    become members of this system.

        (2)  Any justice or judge appointed prior to July 1, 1997, may either become a member of this

    noncontributory system or remain a member of the Judges' Retirement System established under

    Title 49, Chapter 6, Judges' Retirement Act, by following the procedures established by the board

    pursuant to this chapter.

        (3)  Justices and judges may only elect to participate in the noncontributory system under

    Subsection (2) prior to January 1, 1998.

        Section 7.  Section  49-6a-301 is enacted to read:

     Part 3.  Contributions


         49-6a-301.  Contributions by employees and employers -- Retirement fees -- Report.

        (1)  The system shall be maintained on a financially and actuarially sound basis by means

    of contributions and fees made entirely by the employer.

        (2)  Fees and contributions shall be remitted monthly to the retirement office.

        (3)  The board shall report to the governor, the Legislature, and the employing unit the

    contribution rates and any adjustments necessary to maintain the system on a financially and

- 4 -


    actuarially sound basis, and the employer shall pay the certified contribution rates.

        Section 8.  Section  49-6a-401 is enacted to read:

     Part 4.  Benefits


         49-6a-401.  Eligibility for service retirement -- Date of retirement -- Qualifications.

        (1) (a)  Any judge who qualifies for service retirement may retire by applying in writing to

    the retirement office stating the proposed effective date of retirement, which may not be more than

    90 days before or after the date of application.

        (b)  The effective date shall be the 1st or 16th day of the month, as selected by the member,

    but must be after the last day of actual work.

        (c)  The member shall actually terminate employment and provide evidence of termination.

        (2)  The member is qualified to retire upon termination of services on or before the effective

    date of retirement if one of the following requirements on that date is met:

        (a)  the member has been credited with at least six years of service and has attained an age

    of 70 years or more;

        (b)  the member has been credited with at least ten years of service and has attained an age

    of 62 years or more;

        (c)  the member has been credited with at least 20 years of service and has attained an age

    of 55 years or more; or

        (d)  the member has been credited with at least 25 years of service.

        Section 9.  Section  49-6a-402 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-402.  Service retirement plan -- Calculation of retirement benefit -- Adjustment

     to formula permitted.

        Upon the service retirement of a justice or judge under Section 49-6a-401, the justice or

    judge shall receive a retirement allowance determined as follows:

        (1)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 62 years and has ten or more years of

    judicial service credit, the retirement allowance is a monthly amount equal to:

        (a)  5% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicial

    service credited, limited to ten years, plus

- 5 -


        (b)  2.25% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicial

    service credited in excess of ten years but less than 20 years, plus

        (c)  1% of the final average monthly salary multiplied by the number of years of judicial

    service credited in excess of 20 years.  Total monthly retirement allowance to which a justice or

    judge is entitled may not exceed 75% of the final average monthly salary.

        (2)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 70 years and has six years or more of

    judicial service credit, the retirement allowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1).

        (3)  If the justice or judge has 25 years or more of judicial service credit, the retirement

    allowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1).

        (4)  If the justice or judge has attained the age of 55 years and has 20 years or more of

    judicial service credit, the retirement allowance is the same as computed under Subsection (1)

    reduced to an amount payable monthly for life which would be the same actuarial equivalent based

    on the justice's or judge's age at retirement as would be the value of the retirement pay based on life

    expectancy if the justice or judge were 65 years of age.

        (5)  All members and their beneficiaries, as of July 1, 1983, shall receive an increase in

    monthly benefits in the amount of $120 for each member or $60 for each beneficiary.  The cost of

    implementing this subsection shall be shared equally between the employer and employee.

        (6)  Years of service include any fractions of years of service to which the members may be

    entitled.  Notwithstanding the formula for computing the service retirement allowance for members

    participating in the program, the board shall, in as far as practical, adjust the percentage factor used

    in the service retirement allowance formula, in its application to the years of service of a retiring

    member to a percentage amount which maintains the retirement trust account on an actuarially sound

    basis if the employer contributions, retirement court fees, and earnings of the fund are insufficient

    to fund the benefits provided for members participating in the program.

        Section 10.  Section  49-6a-501 is enacted to read:

     Part 5.  Benefit Adjustment


         49-6a-501.  Annual cost-of-living adjustment.

        (1)  There shall be computed and paid from the Judges' Noncontributory Retirement Fund

- 6 -


    an annual cost-of-living allowance adjustment to all retired members after one year of retirement

    equal to the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during the preceding year measured by

    the Consumers Price Index.  The cost-of-living adjustment shall be limited each year to a maximum

    of 4% of the retired member's or beneficiary's monthly retirement allowance.  Decreases in the

    purchasing power of the dollar in excess of 4% annually shall be accumulated over two or more

    years and used in whole or in part in making subsequent annual adjustments when the cost-of-living

    adjustment is less than 4%.

        (2)  The cost-of-living adjustment is based upon the retirant's or beneficiary's allowance, is

    subject to reduction if the cost-of-living shows a decline of 4% for more than one year, and applies

    to any cost-of-living increase.  These reductions may not exceed the rate of 2% per year based upon

    the established retirement allowance base.  Payments made under this section are a part of the retired

    member's allowance. The payments and subsequent adjustments as prescribed for the retirant shall

    likewise apply to any beneficiary who is paid an allowance.

        (3)  Funds for the benefits provided by this section shall be obtained from contributions and

    fees paid on covered salaries.

        Section 11.  Section  49-6a-601 is enacted to read:

     Part 6.  Death Benefits


         49-6a-601.  Death benefit for active and inactive members before retirement --

     Computation of benefit.

        (1)  Upon the receipt of acceptable proof of death of a member or an inactive member before

    the effective date of retirement, the dependent spouse shall have the choice of the following death

    benefits:

        (a)  a refund of accumulated contributions, if any, including interest, plus 65% of the judge's

    final average salary on a yearly rate; or

        (b)  a monthly allowance equal to 65% of the monthly allowance computed on the basis of

    the service retirement allowance formula, based upon the years of service and final average salary,

    but disregarding early retirement reductions.

        (2)  The pension may not exceed an amount which would have been paid if the deceased

- 7 -


    judge served to age 70 and had the retirement allowance then computed on the basis of final average

    salary under Section 49-6a-402.

        Section 12.  Section  49-6a-602 is enacted to read:

         49-6a-602.  Death benefit for active and inactive members after retirement --

     Computation of benefit.

        (1)  The death benefit payable to a dependent spouse after the death of a retired member of

    this system is a monthly amount equal to 65% of the allowance which was being paid to the retired

    member at the time of death.  The effective date of the accrual of this pension is the first day of the

    month following the month in which the retirant died.  Payment of the full pension for this latter

    month shall be made to the dependent beneficiary in lieu of the deceased member.

        (2)  A member may elect to increase the surviving spouse's monthly allowance up to 75%

    of a monthly allowance computed on the basis of the service retirement allowance formula under

    Section 49-6a-402.  The amount payable to the member upon retirement would be reduced to an

    amount payable monthly for life, which would reflect the actuarial equivalent necessary to fund the

    increased percentage for the surviving spouse above 65%.

        Section 13.   Effective date.

        This act takes effect on July 1, 1997.

- 8 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







