Sponsors: []Modifications: atheWhen an employee retires, thethethe employee'sthe samethe employee has at the time of retirementthisbenefit may(2)the, which the employee had at the time of retirement,(2)or who later becomethe useThis act takes effect on July 1, 1999.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0025.ZIP 7,096 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 25 Enrolled





            

    
RETIREMENT - USE OF SICK LEAVE AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Michael G. Waddoups

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO STATE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; MODIFYING THE
            

    
UNUSED SICK LEAVE AND RETIREMENT PROGRAMS; AND PROVIDING AN
            

    
EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     67-19-14, as last amended by Chapter 338, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
67-19-14

 is amended to read:
            

    
     67-19-14.  Sick leave -- Unused sick days -- Retirement program.
            

    
    (1)  The director shall, as an incentive to reduce sick leave abuse, make rules governing
            

    
procedures whereby, after an employee has accumulated 18 unused sick leave days, any sick days
            

    
accumulated during any calendar year in excess of eight, at the option of that employee, may be
            

    
carried as "converted sick leave" which the employee may use at a later date as annual leave,
            

    
regular sick leave, or as paid-up health and medical insurance at the time of retirement on the basis
            

    
of the payment by the employing department of one month's premium for each day of accumulated
            

    
sick leave.
            

    
    (2) (a) (i)  The director shall make rules for the governance of [an early] a retirement
            

    
program.
            

    
    (ii)  Employing departments may offer [an early] the retirement option to an employee.
            

    
    (iii)  Employee participation in any part of the [early] retirement program shall be entirely
            

    
voluntary.
            

    
    (iv)  An employee must be eligible for retirement benefits to qualify for the program.
            

    
    (b) (i) (A)  [The] When an employee retires, the program shall provide for [an] the
            

    
employee to be paid for 25% of the employee's unused accumulated sick leave at the employee's
            

    
preretirement rate of pay.

            

    
    (B)  An employee shall have the option of having all monies from the cashout under
            

    
Subsection (b)(i)(A) transferred directly to the deferred compensation plan qualified under Section
            

    
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code which is sponsored by the Utah State Retirement Board.
            

    
    (ii)  The employing department shall also provide the same health and life insurance benefits
            

    
the employee has at the time of retirement until the employee becomes eligible for Medicare, but this
            

    
benefit may not [to] exceed five years' coverage from the date of retirement, except as provided
            

    
under Subsection (2)(c).
            

    
    (c) (i)  An employee [under the age of 60,] whose unused sick leave, after the 25% cashout
            

    
has been paid, exceeds the 60 days maximum for five-year coverage under Subsection (2)(b), may
            

    
continue the health and life insurance, which the employee had at the time of retirement, at the rate
            

    
of one month's coverage for each day of unused sick leave above the 60 days, but only to the age
            

    
eligible for Medicare.  If the employee has reached the age eligible for Medicare, coverage for the
            

    
employee's spouse may continue under this Subsection (2)(c)(i) until the employee's spouse reaches
            

    
the age eligible for Medicare.
            

    
    (ii)  An employee and the employee's spouse who are or who later become eligible for
            

    
Medicare may purchase Medicare supplemental insurance at the rate of one month's coverage for
            

    
each day of the employee's unused sick leave.
            

    
    (d)  Any costs or savings for this act shall be borne by the agency and shall not be
            

    
appropriated by the Legislature.
            

    
    (3) (a)  The director shall make rules to provide a continuation of health and dental insurance
            

    
to the surviving spouse and family of any state employee whose death occurs in the line of duty.  The
            

    
insurance coverage shall continue for a period of five years or until the surviving spouse becomes
            

    
eligible for Medicare, whichever comes first.
            

    
    (b)  The rules shall also provide for [a cashout of 25%] the use of accumulated sick leave in
            

    
the same manner as provided under Subsection (2)(b).
            

    
    (c)  The costs of paying for the benefits under Subsections (3)(a) and (b) shall be included
            

    
in the agency's budget request each year following the date of death of the employee.
            

    
    Section 2.   Effective date.

- 2 -

            

    
    This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







