Sponsors: []Modifications: specificallyfor the purposes of this chapter and Title 78, Chapter 29body(c)  exposure of the body of one person to the blood or body fluids, other than tears orperspiration, of another person by:(i)  percutaneous inoculation; or(ii)  contact with an open wound, non-intact skin including chapped, abraded, weeping, ordermatitic skin, or mucous membranes; or(d)    26-6a-1.5.An emergency medical services provider may proceed under the provisions of this chapter orpursuant to Section 

78-29-102

, or both.may, and the emergency medical services provider may seek acourt order, pursuant to Section 

78-29-102

, requiring the patient to undergo testing, or to any person who is otherwise legally required to submit to testing(c)  If consent is not given, the emergency medical services provider may petition the districtcourt for an order requiring the patient to submit to testing, pursuant to Section 

78-29-102

., or proceedings may be commenced under Section

78-29-102

,and without proceeding under Section 

78-29-102

and Title 78, Chapter 29(4)  The reporting requirements of this section do not apply to court-ordered testingconducted pursuant to Title 78, Chapter 29.or Title 78, Chapter 29:(a);(b); or(c)  in accordance with Title 78, Chapter 29, or in accordance with the provisions of Title 78,Chapter 29tested and, unless the information is released or provided pursuantto the provisions of Title 78, Chapter 29pre-testunder this chapterpre-test, consistent with the procedures and requirements of Title 78, Chapter 29Sectionsand 

78-29-101

,, as defined in Sections 

26-6a-1

 and 

78-29-101

chaptercontaminatedincludes(2)  "Disease" means the same as that term is defined in Section 

26-6a-1

.(3)a public safety officer,personnelemployed by the Department of Corrections or by apre-hospital(4)Significant exposure" and "significantlymean the same as the term "significant exposure" is defined in Section 

26-6a-1

.Anor first aidvolunteer who isthe:(a)  request that the person to whom he was significantly exposed voluntarily submit to testingpursuant to Title 26, Chapter 6a; or(b)to whom he wasa disease, as defined in Section 

78-29-101

,a petitionanin accordance with the provisions of this sectionmade,:(i)  the documentation required under Subsection 

26-6a-2

(1); or(ii)emergency medical servicesprovider ora disease, whenis filedafteris filedcauseto be servedin a manner that will best preserve theconfidentiality of that persona diseaseemergency, or the provision of emergency assistance or first aid by a first aidvolunteer(7)  The court may order that additional, follow-up testing be conducted, and that theindividual submit to that testing, as it determines to be necessary and appropriate.(8)(9)a diseasedesignated, and thereafter as designatedby the court,(b)(c)Title 26, Chapter 6a, or of(d)or underTitle 26, Chapter 6a,(10)thatare confidentialThat information shall be maintained as confidentialby all parties to the action.(11)  The court, its personnel, the process server, the Department of Health, local healthdepartment, and petitioner shall maintain confidentiality of the name and any other identifyinginformation regarding the individual tested and the results of the test as they relate to that individual,except as specifically authorized by this chapter or by Title 26, Chapter 6a.(12)Except as provided in Subsection (12)(b), thean(13)(14)    78-29-103.Any person or entity entitled to receive confidential information under this chapter, other thanthe individual tested and identified in the information, who violates the provisions of this chapter byreleasing or making public that confidential information, or by otherwise breaching the confidentialityrequirements of this chapter, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, unless the information is otherwisereleased or provided pursuant to the provisions of Title 26, Chapter 6a.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0041.ZIP 17,104 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 41 Enrolled





            

    
DISEASE TESTING FOR AT-RISK

            

    
 EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVIDERS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  John L. Valentine

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDERS AND OTHER
            

    
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS AND VOLUNTEER FIRST AID PROVIDERS; RECONCILING
            

    
CONFLICTS BETWEEN THE HEALTH CODE AND THE JUDICIAL CODE REGARDING
            

    
HIV TESTING PROCEDURES FOLLOWING A SIGNIFICANT EXPOSURE; AND
            

    
PROVIDING CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTY FOR UNLAWFUL
            

    
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     26-6a-1, as last amended by Chapter 282, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     26-6a-2, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-3, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-5, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-6, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-7, as last amended by Chapter 241, Laws of Utah 1991
            

    
     26-6a-8, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-9, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-10, as enacted by Chapter 14, Laws of Utah 1988, Second Special Session
            

    
     26-6a-11, as last amended by Chapter 375, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     78-29-101, as last amended by Chapter 282, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     78-29-102, as last amended by Chapter 10, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     26-6a-1.5, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     78-29-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
26-6a-1

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-1.  Definitions.  
            

    
    For purposes of this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Designated agent" means a person or persons designated by an agency employing or
            

    
utilizing emergency medical services providers as employees or volunteers to receive and distribute
            

    
test results in accordance with this chapter.
            

    
    (2)  "Disability" means the event of becoming physically incapacitated from performing any
            

    
work for remuneration or profit.
            

    
    (3)  "Disease" means Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome, Human Immunodeficiency Virus
            

    
infection, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis B seropositivity, and any other infectious disease specifically
            

    
designated by the department for the purposes of this chapter and Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    (4)  "Emergency medical services agency" means an agency, entity, or organization that
            

    
employs or utilizes emergency medical services providers as employees or volunteers.
            

    
    (5)  "Emergency medical services provider" means an emergency medical technician as 
            
     
defined
            

    
in Section 

26-8-2

, a peace officer as defined in Title 53, Chapter 13, Peace Officer Classifications,
            

    
local fire department personnel, or officials or personnel employed by the Department of Corrections
            

    
or by a county jail, who provides prehospital emergency medical care for an emergency medical
            

    
services agency either as an employee or as a volunteer.
            

    
    (6)  "Patient" means any individual cared for by an emergency medical services provider,
            

    
including but not limited to victims of accidents or injury, deceased persons, and prisoners or persons
            

    
in the custody of the Department of Corrections.
            

    
    (7)  "Significant exposure" means:
            

    
    (a)  contact of an emergency medical services provider's broken skin or mucous membrane
            

    
with a patient's blood or [bodily] body fluids other than tears or perspiration;
            

    
    (b)  that a needle stick, or scalpel or instrument wound has occurred in the process of caring
            

    
for a patient; [or]
            

    
    (c)  exposure of the body of one person to the blood or body fluids, other than tears or
            

    
perspiration, of another person by:

- 2 -

            

    
    (i)  percutaneous inoculation; or
            

    
    (ii)  contact with an open wound, non-intact skin including chapped, abraded, weeping, or
            

    
dermatitic skin, or mucous membranes; or
            

    
    [(c)] (d)  exposure that occurs by any other method of transmission defined by the department
            

    
as a significant exposure.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
26-6a-1.5

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     26-6a-1.5.  Emergency medical services provider -- Choice of action.
            

    
    An emergency medical services provider may proceed under the provisions of this chapter or
            

    
pursuant to Section 

78-29-102

, or both.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
26-6a-2

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-2.  Emergency medical services provider's significant exposure -- Documentation
            

    
 -- Request for testing -- Refusal or consent.
            

    
    (1)  Whenever an emergency medical services provider has a significant exposure in the
            

    
process of caring for a patient, he shall document that exposure.  That documentation shall be in
            

    
writing, on forms approved by the department, and in the manner and time designated by the
            

    
department.
            

    
    (2) (a)  Upon notification of a significant exposure, or upon receipt of the documentation
            

    
described in Subsection (1), the hospital, health care facility, or other facility that receives the patient
            

    
or individual shall request that he consent to testing of his blood to determine the presence of any
            

    
disease as defined in Section 

26-6a-1

.  The patient shall be informed that he [has the right to] may
            

    
refuse to consent to the test and, if he refuses, the fact of his refusal will be forwarded to the
            

    
designated agent and to the department, and the emergency medical services provider may seek a
            

    
court order, pursuant to Section 

78-29-102

, requiring the patient to undergo testing.  The designated
            

    
agent shall forward that information to the emergency medical services provider.  The right to refuse
            

    
a blood test under the circumstances described in this section does not apply to an individual who has
            

    
been convicted of a crime and is in the custody or under the jurisdiction of the Department of
            

    
Corrections, or to any person who is otherwise legally required to submit to testing.
            

    
    (b)  If consent is given, the facility shall obtain and test, or provide for testing of, the patient's

- 3 -

            

    
blood to determine the presence of any disease, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
            

    
    (c)  If consent is not given, the emergency medical services provider may petition the district
            

    
court for an order requiring the patient to submit to testing, pursuant to Section 

78-29-102

.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
26-6a-3

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-3.  Unconscious or incapable patient -- Testing -- Death of patient.
            

    
    (1)  If a patient who is the subject of a reported significant exposure is unconscious or
            

    
incapable of giving informed consent for blood testing under this chapter, that consent may be
            

    
obtained from his next-of-kin or legal guardian, or proceedings may be commenced under Section
            

    


78-29-102

.  However, the following tests may be conducted on a patient who is unconscious or
            

    
incapable of giving informed consent without his consent or that of his next-of-kin or legal guardian,
            

    
and without proceeding under Section 

78-29-102

:
            

    
    (a)  tests for Hepatitis B and Hepatitis B seropositivity; and
            

    
    (b)  tests for any disease, other than AIDS or Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection,
            

    
designated as a disease by the department for purposes of this chapter and Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    (2)  If a patient who is the subject of a reported significant exposure dies prior to admission
            

    
to or discharge or release from the facility that received him without an opportunity to consent to
            

    
blood testing under this chapter, testing for diseases under this chapter shall be conducted. 
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
26-6a-5

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-5.  Reporting of test results.
            

    
    (1) (a)  Results of tests conducted under this chapter shall be reported by the facility that
            

    
conducted the test to specified officials of the department and to a designated agent of the emergency
            

    
medical services agency that employs or utilizes the emergency medical services provider who
            

    
reported the significant exposure.
            

    
    (b)  In the case of tests for AIDS or Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection, the State
            

    
Health Laboratory shall report test results to specified officials in the department, and those officials
            

    
shall report the test results to the appropriate emergency medical services agency's designated agent.
            

    
    (c)  The designated agent shall report the results of tests conducted under this chapter to the
            

    
appropriate emergency medical services provider.

- 4 -

            

    
    (d)  The facility that receives a patient shall inform the patient of test results for all tests
            

    
conducted under this chapter except tests for AIDS and Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection. 
            

    
Results of tests for AIDS and Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection shall be reported to the
            

    
patient by the department or its designee, in accordance with Section 

26-6a-8

.
            

    
    (2)  In making a report to a designated agent under this chapter, the facility that conducted
            

    
the test shall, or in the case of a test for AIDS or Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection the
            

    
department shall, use a case number instead of the patient's name.
            

    
    (3)  In making a report to the emergency medical services provider who requested the test,
            

    
the designated agent shall use a case number instead of a patient's name.
            

    
    (4)  The reporting requirements of this section do not apply to court-ordered testing
            

    
conducted pursuant to Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
26-6a-6

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-6.  Confidentiality of information concerning test results -- Exceptions.
            

    
    (1)  Information concerning test results obtained under this chapter that identify the patient
            

    
shall be maintained as strictly confidential by the hospital, health care or other facility that received
            

    
or tested the patient, designated agent, emergency medical services provider, emergency medical
            

    
services agency, and the department, except as provided by this chapter.  That information may not
            

    
be made public upon subpoena, search warrant, discovery proceedings, or otherwise except as
            

    
provided by this chapter or Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    (2)  The information described in Subsection (1) may be released:
            

    
    (a)  with the written consent of the patient[, or];
            

    
    (b)  if the patient is deceased or incapable of giving informed consent, with the written consent
            

    
of his next-of-kin, legal guardian, or executor of his estate; or
            

    
    (c)  in accordance with Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    (3)  Information concerning test results obtained under the authority of this chapter may be
            

    
released in such a way that no patient is identifiable, or in accordance with the provisions of Title 78,
            

    
Chapter 29.
            

    
    Section 7.  
Section  
26-6a-7

 is amended to read:

- 5 -

            

    
     26-6a-7.  Violation of confidentiality requirements -- Penalty.
            

    
    Any person or entity entitled to receive confidential information under this chapter, other than
            

    
the individual tested and identified in the information, who violates this section by releasing or making
            

    
public confidential information, or by otherwise breaching the confidentiality requirements of this
            

    
chapter, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, unless the information is released or provided pursuant
            

    
to the provisions of Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    Section 8.  
Section  
26-6a-8

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-8.  Patient notification and counseling.
            

    
    (1)  With regard to testing for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Human
            

    
Immunodeficiency Virus infection, [pretest] pre-test counseling, notification of test results, and
            

    
post-test counseling shall be provided to all patients tested under this chapter, in accordance with
            

    
rules established by the department, unless counseling is specifically declined by the patient.
            

    
    (2)  All [pretest] pre-test counseling required by Subsection (1) shall be provided by the
            

    
hospital or health care or other facility that received the patient.
            

    
    (3)  Notification of test results to patients tested for AIDS or Human Immunodeficiency Virus
            

    
infection, and post-test counseling required by Subsection (1) shall be provided by the department
            

    
or its designee.  The appropriate emergency medical services agency is responsible for the cost of that
            

    
counseling.
            

    
    Section 9.  
Section  
26-6a-9

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-9.  Department authority -- Rules.
            

    
    The department has authority to establish rules as necessary for the purposes of Sections
            

    

26-6a-1

 through 

26-6a-8

, consistent with the procedures and requirements of Title 78, Chapter 29.
            

    
    Section 10.  
Section  
26-6a-10

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-10.  Workers' compensation presumption for emergency medical services
            

    
 providers.
            

    
    (1)  An emergency medical services provider who claims to have contracted a disease, as
            

    
defined by [Section] Sections

26-6a-1

and 

78-29-101

, as a result of a significant exposure in the
            

    
performance of his duties as an emergency medical services provider, is presumed to have contracted

- 6 -

            

    
the disease by accident during the course of his duties as an emergency medical services provider if:
            

    
    (a)  his employment or service as an emergency medical services provider in this state
            

    
commenced prior to July 1, 1988, and he tests positive for a disease during the tenure of his
            

    
employment or service, or within three months after termination of his employment or service; or
            

    
    (b)  the individual's employment or service as an emergency medical services provider in this
            

    
state commenced on or after July 1, 1988, and he tests negative for any disease at the time his
            

    
employment or service commenced, and again three months later, and he subsequently tests positive
            

    
during the tenure of his employment or service, or within three months after termination of his
            

    
employment or service.
            

    
    (2)  Each emergency medical services agency shall inform the emergency medical services
            

    
providers that it employs or utilizes of the provisions and benefits of this section at commencement
            

    
of and termination of employment or service. 
            

    
    Section 11.  
Section  
26-6a-11

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-6a-11.  Workers' compensation claims by emergency medical services providers --
            

    
 Time limits.
            

    
    (1)  For all purposes of establishing a workers' compensation claim, the "date of accident" is
            

    
presumed to be the date on which an emergency medical services provider first tests positive for a
            

    
disease, as defined in Sections 

26-6a-1

 and 

78-29-101

.  However, for purposes of establishing the
            

    
rate of workers' compensation benefits under Subsection 

34A-2-702

(5), if a positive test for a disease
            

    
occurs within three months after termination of employment, the last date of employment is presumed
            

    
to be the "date of accident."
            

    
    (2)  The time limits prescribed by Section 

34A-2-417

 do not apply to an employee whose
            

    
disability is due to a disease, so long as the employee who claims to have suffered a significant
            

    
exposure in the service of his employer gives notice, as required by Section 

34A-3-108

, of the "date
            

    
of accident."
            

    
    (3)  Any claim for workers' compensation benefits or medical expenses shall be filed with the
            

    
Division of Adjudication of the Labor Commission within one year after the date on which the
            

    
employee first becomes disabled or requires medical treatment for a disease, or within one year after

- 7 -

            

    
the termination of employment as an emergency medical services provider, whichever occurs later.
            

    
    Section 12.  
Section  
78-29-101

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-29-101.  Definitions.  
            

    
    For purposes of this [part] chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Blood or [blood-contaminated] contaminated body fluids" [include] includes blood,
            

    
amniotic fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, pleural fluid, synovial fluid, cerebrospinal fluid,
            

    
semen, and vaginal secretions, and any body fluid visibly contaminated with blood.
            

    
    (2)  "Disease" means the same as that term is defined in Section 

26-6a-1

.
            

    
    [(2)] (3)  "Emergency medical services provider" means an emergency medical technician as
            

    
defined in Section 

26-8-2

, a public safety officer, local fire department personnel, or personnel
            

    
employed by the Department of Corrections or by a county jail [personnel], who provide [prehospital]
            

    
pre-hospital emergency medical care for an emergency medical services agency either as an employee
            

    
or as a volunteer.
            

    
    [(3)] (4)  "First aid volunteer" means a person who provides voluntary emergency assistance
            

    
or first aid medical care to an injured person prior to the arrival of an emergency medical services
            

    
provider or public safety officer.
            

    
    [(4)  "HIV" means the Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection as determined by current
            

    
medical standards and detected by any of the following:]
            

    
    [(a)  presence of antibodies to HIV, verified by a positive confirmatory test, such as Western
            

    
blot or other methods approved by the Utah State Health Laboratory.  Western blot interpretation
            

    
will be based on criteria currently recommended by the Association of State and Territorial Public
            

    
Health Laboratory Directors;]
            

    
    [(b)  presence of HIV antigen;]
            

    
    [(c)  isolation of HIV; or]
            

    
    [(d)  demonstration of HIV proviral DNA.]
            

    
    (5)  "Public safety officer" means a peace officer as defined in Title 53, Chapter 13, Peace
            

    
Officer Classifications.
            

    
    (6)  "[Significantly] Significant exposure" and "significantly exposed" [means exposure of the

- 8 -

            

    
body of one person to HIV or other blood-borne pathogens from the blood of another person by:]
            

    
mean the same as the term "significant exposure" is defined in Section 

26-6a-1

.
            

    
    [(a)  percutaneous inoculation; or]
            

    
    [(b)  contact with an open wound, nonintact skin which includes chapped, abraded, weeping,
            

    
or dermatitic skin, or mucous membranes to blood and blood-contaminated body fluids.]
            

    
    Section 13.  
Section  
78-29-102

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-29-102.  Petition -- HIV testing -- Notice -- Payment of testing.
            

    
    (1)  [A person,] An emergency medical services provider, [or public safety officer] or first aid
            

    
volunteer who is significantly exposed during the course of performing the emergency medical
            

    
services provider's [or the public safety officer's] duties or [a first aid volunteer significantly exposed]
            

    
during the course of performing emergency assistance or first aid may:
            

    
    (a)  request that the person to whom he was significantly exposed voluntarily submit to testing
            

    
pursuant to Title 26, Chapter 6a; or
            

    
    (b)  petition the district court for an order requiring that the person [who] to whom he was
            

    
significantly exposed [the petitioner] submit to testing to determine the presence of [HIV or other
            

    
blood-borne pathogens] a disease, as defined in Section 

78-29-101

, and that the results of that test
            

    
be disclosed to the petitioner by the Department of Health.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The petitioner shall file a petition with the district court [a petition] seeking [the] an
            

    
order to submit to testing and to disclose the results in accordance with the provisions of this section.
            

    
    (b)  The petition shall be sealed upon filing and made accessible only to the petitioner, the
            

    
subject of the petition, and their attorneys, upon court order.
            

    
    (3) (a)  The petition described in Subsection (2) shall be accompanied by:
            

    
    (i)  the documentation required under Subsection 

26-6a-2

(1); or
            

    
    (ii)  an affidavit in which the [person, the public safety officer,] emergency medical services
            

    
provider or first aid volunteer[, or emergency medical services provider] certifies that he has been
            

    
significantly exposed to the individual who is the subject of the petition and describes that exposure.
            

    
    (b)  The petitioner shall submit to testing to determine the presence of [HIV or other
            

    
blood-borne pathogens concurrently with] a disease, when the petition is filed or within ten days [of]

- 9 -

            

    
after the petition is filed.
            

    
    (4)  The petitioner shall [serve] cause the petition required under this section to be served on
            

    
the person who the petitioner is requesting to be tested in a manner that will best preserve the
            

    
confidentiality of that person.
            

    
    (5) (a)  The court shall set a time for a hearing on the matter within 20 days after the petition
            

    
is filed and shall give the petitioner and the individual who is the subject of the petition notice of the
            

    
hearing at least 72 hours prior to the hearing.
            

    
    (b)  The individual who is the subject of the petition shall also be notified that he may have
            

    
an attorney present at the hearing, and that his attorney may examine and cross-examine witnesses.
            

    
    (c)  The hearing shall be conducted in camera.
            

    
    (6)  The district court may enter an order requiring that an individual submit to testing for
            

    
[HIV or other blood-borne pathogens] a disease if the court finds probable cause to believe:
            

    
    (a)  the petitioner was significantly exposed; and
            

    
    (b)  the exposure occurred during the course of the [public safety officer's or] emergency
            

    
medical services provider's duties, or the provision of emergency assistance or first aid by a first aid
            

    
volunteer.
            

    
    (7)  The court may order that additional, follow-up testing be conducted, and that the
            

    
individual submit to that testing, as it determines to be necessary and appropriate.
            

    
    [(7)] (8)  The court is not required to order an individual to submit to a test under this section
            

    
if it finds that there is a substantial reason, relating to the life or health of the individual, not to enter
            

    
the order.
            

    
    [(8)] (9) (a)  Upon order of the district court that a person submit to testing for [HIV or other
            

    
blood-borne pathogens] a disease, that person shall report to the designated local health department
            

    
to have his blood drawn within ten days from the issuance of the order, and thereafter as designated
            

    
by the court, or [shall] be held in contempt of court.
            

    
    [(b)  The order shall include the name and address of the petitioner and the subject of the
            

    
petition.]
            

    
    [(c)] (b)  The court shall send the order to the Department of Health and to the local health

- 10 -

            

    
department ordered to draw the blood.
            

    
    [(d)] (c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Title 26, Chapter 6a, or of Section 

26-6-27

, the
            

    
Department of Health and a local health department may disclose the test results pursuant to a court
            

    
order as provided in this section.
            

    
    [(e)] (d)  Under this section, anonymous testing as provided under Section 

26-6-3.5

or under
            

    
Title 26, Chapter 6a, shall not satisfy the requirements of the court order.
            

    
    [(f)] (10)  The local health department or the Department of Health shall inform the subject
            

    
of the petition and the petitioner of the results of the test and advise both parties [of the confidential
            

    
nature of] that the test results are confidential.  That information shall be maintained as confidential
            

    
by all parties to the action.
            

    
    (11)  The court, its personnel, the process server, the Department of Health, local health
            

    
department, and petitioner shall maintain confidentiality of the name and any other identifying
            

    
information regarding the individual tested and the results of the test as they relate to that individual,
            

    
except as specifically authorized by this chapter or by Title 26, Chapter 6a.
            

    
    [(9)] (12) (a)  [The] Except as provided in Subsection (12)(b), the petitioner shall remit
            

    
payment for the drawing of the blood specimen and the analysis of the specimen for the mandatory
            

    
disease testing to the entity that draws the blood.
            

    
    (b)  If the petitioner is [a public safety officer or] an emergency medical services provider, the
            

    
agency which employs the [public safety officer or] emergency medical services provider shall remit
            

    
payment for the drawing of the blood specimen and the analysis of the specimen for the mandatory
            

    
disease testing to the entity that draws the blood.
            

    
    [(10)] (13)  The entity that draws the blood shall cause the blood and the payment for the
            

    
analysis of the specimen to be delivered to the Department of Health for analysis.
            

    
    [(11)] (14)  If the individual is incarcerated, the incarcerating authority shall either draw the
            

    
blood specimen or shall pay the expenses of having the individual's blood drawn.
            

    
    Section 14.  
Section  
78-29-103

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     78-29-103.  Confidentiality -- Disclosure -- Penalty.
            

    
    Any person or entity entitled to receive confidential information under this chapter, other than

- 11 -

            

    
the individual tested and identified in the information, who violates the provisions of this chapter by
            

    
releasing or making public that confidential information, or by otherwise breaching the confidentiality
            

    
requirements of this chapter, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, unless the information is otherwise
            

    
released or provided pursuant to the provisions of Title 26, Chapter 6a.

- 12 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







