Sponsors: []Modifications: Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0098.ZIP 9,117 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 98 Enrolled









     COUNTIES - SUBDIVISION DEFINED




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: LeRay McAllister


    AN ACT RELATING TO COUNTIES; MODIFYING THE DEFINITION OF SUBDIVISION.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         17-27-103, as last amended by Chapter 179, Laws of Utah 1995

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  17-27-103 is amended to read:

         17-27-103.  Definitions -- Notice.

        (1)  As used in this chapter:

        (a)  "Billboard" means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or

    residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product,

    or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.

        (b)  "Chief executive officer" means the county executive, or if the county has adopted an

    alternative form of government, the official who exercises the executive powers.

        (c)  "Conditional use" means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or

    potential impact on the county, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be

    compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate

    or eliminate the detrimental impacts.

        (d)  "County" means the unincorporated area of the county.

        (e)  "Elderly person" means a person who is 60 years old or older, who desires or needs to

    live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of living independently.

        (f) (i)  "General plan" means a document that a county adopts that sets forth general

    guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the county, as set forth in Sections

    17-27-301 and 17-27-302.

        (ii)  "General plan" includes what is also commonly referred to as a "master plan."

        (g)  "Handicapped person" means a person who:


        (i)  has a severe, chronic disability attributable to a mental or physical impairment, or to a

    combination of mental and physical impairments, that is likely to continue indefinitely and that

    results in a substantial functional limitation in three or more of the following areas of major life

    activity:

        (A)  self-care;

        (B)  receptive and expressive language;

        (C)  learning;

        (D)  mobility;

        (E)  self-direction;

        (F)  capacity for independent living; and

        (G)  economic self-sufficiency; and

        (ii)  requires a combination or sequence of special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment,

    or other services that are individually planned and coordinated to allow the person to function in, and

    contribute to, a residential neighborhood.

        (h)  "Legislative body" means the county legislative body, or for a county that has adopted

    an alternative form of government, the body exercising legislative powers.

        (i)  "Lot line adjustment"means the relocation of the property boundary line between two

    adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.

        (j)  "Municipality" means a city or town.

        (k)  "Nonconforming structure" means a structure that:

        (i)  legally existed before its current zoning designation; and

        (ii)  because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the zoning regulation's

    setback, height restrictions, or other regulations that govern the structure.

        (l)  "Nonconforming use" means a use of land that:

        (i)  legally existed before its current zoning designation;

        (ii)  has been maintained continuously since the time the zoning regulation governing the

    land changed; and

        (iii)  because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the zoning regulations

- 2 -


    that now govern the land.

        (m)  "Official map" means a map of proposed streets that has the legal effect of prohibiting

    development of the property until the county develops the proposed street.

        (n) (i)  "Residential facility for elderly persons" means a single-family or multiple-family

    dwelling unit that meets the requirements of Part 5 and any ordinance adopted under authority of that

    part.

        (ii)  "Residential facility for elderly persons" does not include a health care facility as defined

    by Section 26-21-2.

        (o)  "Residential facility for handicapped persons" means a single-family or multiple-family

    dwelling unit that meets the requirements of Part 6 and any ordinance adopted under authority of that

    part.

        (p)  "Special district" means all entities established under the authority of Title 17A and any

    other governmental or quasi-governmental entity that is not a county, municipality, school district,

    or unit of the state.

        (q)  "Street" means public rights-of-way, including highways, avenues, boulevards,

    parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges, public easements, and

    other ways.

        (r) (i)  "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided

    into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether

    immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any

    and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

        (ii)  "Subdivision" includes the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and

    bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument.

        (iii)  "Subdivision" does not include a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for

    agricultural purposes [or of commercial, manufacturing, or industrial land for commercial,

    manufacturing, or industrial purposes].

        (s)  "Unincorporated" means the area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities and

    towns.

- 3 -


        (2) (a)  A county meets the requirements of reasonable notice required by this chapter if it:

        (i)  posts notice of the hearing or meeting in at least three public places within the jurisdiction

    and publishes notice of the hearing or meeting in a newspaper of general circulation in the

    jurisdiction, if one is available; or

        (ii)  gives actual notice of the hearing or meeting.

        (b)  A county legislative body may enact an ordinance establishing stricter notice

    requirements than those required by this subsection.

        (c) (i)  Proof that one of the two forms of notice authorized by this subsection was given is

    prima facie evidence that notice was properly given.

        (ii)  If notice given under authority of this section is not challenged as provided in Section

    17-27-1001 within 30 days from the date of the meeting for which the notice was given, the notice

    is considered adequate and proper.

- 4 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







