Sponsors: []Modifications: one representativeone representative(d)  two representatives of noncustodial parents, one male and one female, appointed bythe governor;(e)  two representatives of custodial parents, one male and one female, appointed by thegovernor; and(f)threeFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0080.ZIP 7,078 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 80 Enrolled








 
    CHILD SUPPORT ADVISORY


     COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Craig L. Taylor


    AN ACT RELATING TO JUDICIAL CODE; ALTERING MEMBERSHIP OF THE CHILD

    SUPPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         78-45-7.13, as last amended by Chapter 243, Laws of Utah 1996

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  78-45-7.13 is amended to read:

         78-45-7.13.  Advisory committee -- Membership and functions.

        (1)  On or before March 1, 1995, the governor shall appoint an advisory committee

    consisting of:

        (a)  [two representatives] one representative recommended by the Office of Recovery

    Services;

        (b)  [two representatives] one representative recommended by the Judicial Council;

        (c)  two representatives recommended by the Utah State Bar Association; [and]

        (d)  two representatives of noncustodial parents, one male and one female, appointed by

    the governor;

        (e)  two representatives of custodial parents, one male and one female, appointed by the

    governor; and

        [(d)] (f)  an uneven number of additional persons, not to exceed [five] three, who represent

    diverse interests related to child support issues, as the governor may consider appropriate. 

    However, none of the individuals appointed under this subsection may be members of the Utah

    State Bar Association.

        (2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current committee members

    expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.


        (b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the governor shall, at the time of

    appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee

    members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

        (3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be

    appointed for the unexpired term.

        (4) (a)  The advisory committee shall review the child support guidelines to ensure their

    application results in the determination of appropriate child support award amounts.

        (b)  The committee shall report to the Legislative Judiciary Interim Committee on or before

    October 1 in 1989 and 1991, and then on or before October 1 of every fourth year subsequently.

        (c)  The committee's report shall include recommendations of the majority of the committee,

    as well as specific recommendations of individual members of the committee.

        (5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no compensation or

    benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the

    member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections

    63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.

        (b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive salary, per diem,

    or expenses from their agency for their service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the

    performance of their official duties from the committee at the rates established by the Division of

    Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per diem and

    expenses for their service.

        (6)  Staff for the committee shall be provided from the existing budgets of the Department

    of Human Services [and the Judicial Council].

        (7)  The committee ceases to exist no later than the date the subsequent committee under this

    section is appointed.

- 2 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







