Sponsors: []Modifications: (13) (a)  "Passenger vehicle" means a self-propelled, two-axle vehicle intended primarily foroperation on highways and used by an applicant or client to meet basic transportation needs.(b)  "Passenger vehicle" does not include:(i)  a commercial vehicle, as defined in Section 

41-1a-102

;(ii)  an off-highway vehicle, as defined in Section 

41-1a-102

; or(iii)  a motor home, as defined in Section 

13-14-102

.(14)(15)(16)(a)(i)(ii)  a monthly insurance payment of up to $50 for a passenger vehicle owned or leased bythe applicant;(iii)  a monthly lease or purchase payment of up to $100 for a passenger vehicle owned orleased by the applicant if that passenger vehicle is the only such vehicle reasonably available to theapplicant to meet basic transportation needs; and(iv)(b)  Subsections (6)(a)(ii) and (iii) may only be considered in determining the dollar amountof cash assistance:(i)  for cash assistance-only cases; and(ii)  for other public assistance cases if:(A)  Subsections (6)(a)(ii) and (iii) can be implemented within the state's existing publicassistance-related waivers as of January 1, 1999;(B)  the federal government extends a waiver that permits the implementation of Subsections(6)(a)(ii) and (iii); or(C)  the federal government determines that the state's waivers that permit dual eligibilitydeterminations for cash assistance and Medicaid are no longer valid.This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0051.ZIP 7,260 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 51 Enrolled




            

    

Corrected Version

            

    
 FAMILY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Pete  Suazo

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO WORKFORCE SERVICES; DEFINING TERMS; PERMITTING THE
            

    
FIRST PART OF A CAR PAYMENT AND A CAR INSURANCE PAYMENT TO BE
            

    
DISREGARDED WHEN DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR CASH ASSISTANCE; AND
            

    
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     35A-3-102, as enacted by Chapter 174, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     35A-3-302, as enacted by Chapter 174, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
35A-3-102

 is amended to read:
            

    
     35A-3-102.  Definitions.
            

    
    As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Applicant" means a person who requests assistance under this chapter.
            

    
    (2)  "Average monthly number of families" means the average number of families who
            

    
received cash assistance on a monthly basis during the previous federal fiscal year, starting from
            

    
October 1, 1998 to September 30, 1999, and continuing each year thereafter.
            

    
    (3)  "Cash assistance" means a monthly dollar amount of cash a client is eligible to receive
            

    
under Section 

35A-3-302

.
            

    
    (4)  "Child care services" means care of a child for a portion of the day that is less than 24
            

    
hours in a qualified setting, as defined by rule, by a responsible person who is not the child's parent
            

    
or legal guardian.
            

    
    (5)  "Date of enrollment" means the date on which the applicant was approved as eligible
            

    
for cash assistance.
            

    
    (6)  "Director" means the director of the division.

            

    
    (7)  "Diversion" means a single payment of cash assistance under Section 

35A-3-303

 to a
            

    
client who is eligible for but does not require extended cash assistance under Part 3, Family
            

    
Employment Program.
            

    
    (8)  "Division" means the Division of Employment Development.
            

    
    (9)  "Education or training" means:
            

    
    (a)  basic remedial education;
            

    
    (b)  adult education;
            

    
    (c)  high school education;
            

    
    (d)  education to obtain the equivalent of a high school diploma;
            

    
    (e)  education to learn English as a second language;
            

    
    (f)  applied technology training;
            

    
    (g)  employment skills training; or
            

    
    (h)  on-the-job training.
            

    
    (10)  "Full-time education or training" means training on a full-time basis as defined by the
            

    
educational institution attended by the parent client.
            

    
    (11)  "General assistance" means financial assistance provided to a person who is not
            

    
otherwise eligible for cash assistance under Part 3, Family Employment Program, because that
            

    
person does not live in a family with a related dependent child.
            

    
    (12)  "Office of Recovery Services" means the state's Title IV-D child support enforcement
            

    
agency organized within the Department of Human Services.
            

    
    (13) (a)  "Passenger vehicle" means a self-propelled, two-axle vehicle intended primarily for
            

    
operation on highways and used by an applicant or client to meet basic transportation needs.
            

    
    (b)  "Passenger vehicle" does not include:
            

    
    (i)  a commercial vehicle, as defined in Section 

41-1a-102

;
            

    
    (ii)  an off-highway vehicle, as defined in Section 

41-1a-102

; or
            

    
    (iii)  a motor home, as defined in Section 

13-14-102

.
            

    
    [(13)] (14)  "Plan" or "state plan" means the state plan submitted to the Secretary of the
            

    
United States Department of Health and Human Services to receive funding from the United States

- 2 -

            

    
through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Block Grant.
            

    
    [(14)] (15)  "Parent client" means a person who enters into an employment plan with the
            

    
division to qualify for cash assistance under Part 3, Family Employment Program.
            

    
    [(15)] (16)  "Single minor parent" means a person under 18 years of age who is not married
            

    
and has a minor child in his care and custody.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
35A-3-302

 is amended to read:
            

    
     35A-3-302.  Eligibility requirements.
            

    
    (1)  The program of cash assistance provided under this part is known as the Family
            

    
Employment Program.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The division shall submit a state plan to the Secretary of the United States Department
            

    
of Health and Human Services to obtain federal funding under the Temporary Assistance for Needy
            

    
Families Block Grant.
            

    
    (b)  The provisions of the state plan submitted under Subsection (2)(a) shall be consistent
            

    
with this part and federal law.
            

    
    (c)  If a discrepancy arises between a provision of the state plan and this part, this part
            

    
supersedes the provision in the state plan.
            

    
    (3)  The services and supports under this part are for both one-parent and two-parent families.
            

    
    (4)  To be eligible for cash assistance under this part, a family shall:
            

    
    (a)  have at least one minor dependent child; or
            

    
    (b) have a parent who is in the third trimester of a pregnancy.
            

    
    (5) (a)  In an appropriations act, the Legislature shall determine annually the maximum
            

    
monthly dollar amount of cash assistance for families based on family size.
            

    
    (b)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
            

    
department shall establish rules for eligibility and the amount of cash assistance a family is eligible
            

    
to receive under this part, which shall be based on:
            

    
    (i)  family size;
            

    
    (ii)  family income;
            

    
    (iii)  the maximum monthly income established under Subsection (5)(a); and

- 3 -

            

    
    (iv)  other relevant factors.
            

    
    (6) (a)  When determining the dollar amount of cash assistance to be provided under this
            

    
chapter, the division shall disregard from earned income:
            

    
    [(a)] (i)  $100; [and]
            

    
    (ii)  a monthly insurance payment of up to $50 for a passenger vehicle owned or leased by
            

    
the applicant;
            

    
    (iii)  a monthly lease or purchase payment of up to $100 for a passenger vehicle owned or
            

    
leased by the applicant if that passenger vehicle is the only such vehicle reasonably available to the
            

    
applicant to meet basic transportation needs; and
            

    
    [(b)] (iv)  50% of the remaining monthly income.
            

    
    (b)  Subsections (6)(a)(ii) and (iii) may only be considered in determining the dollar amount
            

    
of cash assistance:
            

    
    (i)  for cash assistance-only cases; and
            

    
    (ii)  for other public assistance cases if:
            

    
    (A)  Subsections (6)(a)(ii) and (iii) can be implemented within the state's existing public
            

    
assistance-related waivers as of January 1, 1999;
            

    
    (B)  the federal government extends a waiver that permits the implementation of Subsections
            

    
(6)(a)(ii) and (iii); or
            

    
    (C)  the federal government determines that the state's waivers that permit dual eligibility
            

    
determinations for cash assistance and Medicaid are no longer valid.
            

    
    (7)  Once eligibility has been established, the division shall disregard money on deposit in
            

    
an Individual Development Account established under Section 

35A-3-312

 when determining
            

    
subsequent eligibility.
            

    
    (8)  The department shall provide for an appeal of a determination of eligibility in accordance
            

    
with Title 63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act.
            

    
    Section 3.   Effective date.
            

    
    This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.

- 4 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







