Sponsors: []Modifications: and maintain(a)centerat the University of Utah Health Science Center.  The program office shall establish andoperate a statewide, decentralized, regional program with emphasis on addressing rural healthprofessions workforce education and training needs.(b)  The area health education center program shall have five regional centers serving thefollowing geographic areas:(i)  the northern center serving Box Elder, Cache, Rich, Weber, and Morgan counties;(ii)  the crossroads center serving Salt Lake, Wasatch, Summit, Tooele, Utah, and Daviscounties;(iii)  the central center serving Juab, Millard, Piute, Sanpete, Sevier, and Wayne counties;(iv)  the eastern center serving Carbon, Daggett, Duchesne, Emery, Grand, San Juan, andUintah counties; and(v)  the southwest center serving Beaver, Garfield, Iron, Kane, and Washington counties(3)center(4)thedescribed in Subsection (2)(b) of thissection(1)  There is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 2001-02 only, $300,000 tothe University of Utah Health Science Center.    (2)  It is the intent of the Legislature that this appropriation shall be used for the Area HealthEducation Center program established in Section 

26-9-3

.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 9 SB0031.ZIP 4,843 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 31 Enrolled





            

    
 AREA HEALTH EDUCATION CENTER AMENDMENTS



            

    
2001 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    


 Sponsor: Peter C. Knudson



            

    
 This act modifies the Health Code to remove the Department of Health from the
            

    
 responsibility of establishing area health education centers.  The act establishes five regional
            

    
 centers and makes technical changes.  The act appropriates $300,000 from the General Fund
            

    
 for fiscal year 2001-02 to the University of Utah Health Science Center to expand the Area
            

    
 Health Education Center Program.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     26-9-3, as enacted by Chapter 321, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
26-9-3

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-9-3.  Rural health development initiatives.
            

    
    (1) (a)  The University of Utah Health Science Center [and the department] shall use any
            

    
appropriations it receives for developing area health education centers to establish and maintain
            

    
an area health education center program in accordance with this section.
            

    
    (b)  Implementation and execution of the area health education center program is
            

    
contingent upon appropriations from the Legislature.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The area health education [centers] center program shall consist of a central
            

    
program office[, and one or more area health education centers established throughout the state. 
            

    
The purpose of the program is to establish and operate a statewide, decentralized, regional health
            

    
professions and training program, with special emphasis on addressing rural education and training
            

    
needs] at the University of Utah Health Science Center.  The program office shall establish and
            

    
operate a statewide, decentralized, regional program with emphasis on addressing rural health
            

    
professions workforce education and training needs.
            

    
    (b)  The area health education center program shall have five regional centers serving the
            

    
following geographic areas:

            

    
    (i)  the northern center serving Box Elder, Cache, Rich, Weber, and Morgan counties;
            

    
    (ii)  the crossroads center serving Salt Lake, Wasatch, Summit, Tooele, Utah, and Davis
            

    
counties;
            

    
    (iii)  the central center serving Juab, Millard, Piute, Sanpete, Sevier, and Wayne counties;
            

    
    (iv)  the eastern center serving Carbon, Daggett, Duchesne, Emery, Grand, San Juan, and
            

    
Uintah counties; and
            

    
    (v)  the southwest center serving Beaver, Garfield, Iron, Kane, and Washington counties.
            

    
    [(3)  The University of Utah Health Sciences Center is responsible for the development and
            

    
maintenance of the area health education centers program.  The department shall provide assistance
            

    
to the University of Utah Health Sciences Center for the development and maintenance of the area
            

    
health education centers program.]
            

    
    [(4)] (3)  The area health education [centers] center program shall attempt to acquire funding
            

    
from state, local, federal, and private sources.
            

    
    [(5)] (4)  Each area health education center shall provide community-based health professions
            

    
education programming for [a defined] the geographic area described in Subsection (2)(b) of this
            

    
section.
            

    
    Section 2.   Appropriation.
            

    
    (1)  There is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 2001-02 only, $300,000 to
            

    
the University of Utah Health Science Center.
            

    
    (2)  It is the intent of the Legislature that this appropriation shall be used for the Area Health
            

    
Education Center program established in Section 

26-9-3

.

- 2 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







