Sponsors: []Modifications: (2)  Anmay petition the board for administrative review of the decision(3)(4) (a)(b)  The board shall base its final actions on findings and conclusions and shall inform theaggrieved party of its right to judicial review.(5)    53C-2-104.(1)  The Legislature recognizes the importance of having an effective state filing system forunpatented federal mining claims located on trust lands prior to the state's acquisition of title thatwould allow the state to determine the extent of preexisting unpatented mining claims on those landsand eliminate the cloud on the state's title created by abandoned unpatented mining claims, whilepreserving the rights of owners of valid preexisting unpatented mining claims located on those lands.(2)  Prior to January 1, 1998, and annually thereafter on or before December 31, each ownerof an unpatented lode mining claim, placer mining claim, mill site claim, or tunnel site claim locatedpursuant to the general mining laws of the United States on lands now owned of record by the statein trust for the common schools or other beneficiary institutions shall file with the administrationa notice as prescribed by Subsection (3).(3)  The notice required by Subsection (2) shall include:(a)  a statement of the owner's intention to hold or abandon the claim;(b)  a brief description of the type and nature of the claim;(c)  the date the claim was located, and the date the claim was filed of record in county andfederal records;(d)  a copy of the official record of the notice of location or certificate of location of theclaim; and(e)  a legal description of the claim, by legal subdivision or metes and bounds description,sufficient to locate the claimed lands on the ground.(4) (a)  The administration shall note the existence of all claims for which notices have beenfiled in the central index of all trust lands required under Section 53C-2-101.(b)  The administration may impose a reasonable filing fee as a condition for accepting therequired notices, not to exceed $50 per claim, to defray the administrative costs of maintaining anindex of claims.(5) (a)  Failure to file the notice required by this section constitutes an abandonment of theclaim by the owner.(b)  Filing of the required notice by one owner of a claim in which multiple persons own orclaim interests fulfills the filing requirements of this section.(6)  Filing of a notice under this section does not make valid a claim which is otherwiseinvalid under other applicable law.(7)  Acquisition of rights to extract minerals underlying trust lands is governed by Part 4 ofthis chapter.(8)  This section does not waive any fees, filings, or other requirements imposed by federallaw.the personThe director shall deposit money(5)  The director may award a portion of any of the damages collected under this section inexcess of actual damages to the general fund of the county in which the trespass occurred as a rewardfor county assistance in the apprehension and prosecution of the trespassing party.,without further notice or appeal,pursuant to Section 53C-1-304enterpriseFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0077.ZIP 12,117 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 77 Enrolled








 
    SCHOOL AND INSTITUTIONAL TRUST


     LANDS AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  David H. Steele


    Scott N. Howell
Joseph L. Hull
Howard A. Stephenson


    AN ACT RELATING TO SCHOOL AND INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS; PROVIDING

    TECHNICAL CHANGES TO PROCEDURES FOR AGENCY ADJUDICATIONS;

    PROVIDING FOR REGISTRATION OF PREEXISTING FEDERAL MINING CLAIMS

    ENCUMBERING TRUST LANDS; ALLOWING THE DIRECTOR OF SCHOOL AND

    INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS TO REWARD COUNTY GOVERNMENTS FOR

    ASSISTANCE IN APPREHENDING AND PROSECUTING TRESPASSERS ON

    TRUST LANDS; AND CONVERTING THE LAND GRANT MANAGEMENT FUND

    INTO AN ENTERPRISE FUND.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         53C-1-304, as last amended by Chapter 299, Laws of Utah 1995

         53C-2-301, as enacted by Chapter 294, Laws of Utah 1994

         53C-2-409, as enacted by Chapter 294, Laws of Utah 1994

         53C-3-101, as last amended by Chapter 299, Laws of Utah 1995

    ENACTS:

         53C-2-104, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  53C-1-304 is amended to read:

         53C-1-304.  Rules to ensure procedural due process -- Board review of director action

     -- Judicial review.

        (1)  The board shall make rules to ensure procedural due process in the resolution of

    complaints concerning actions by the board, director, and the administration.

        [(2)  The director, the administration, and the board shall take final action on the basis of


    findings supported by a record.]

        [(3)  Upon the petition of an]

        (2)  An aggrieved party to a final action by the director or the administration[, the board shall

    review the action on the record] may petition the board for administrative review of the decision.

        [(4)] (3) (a)  The board may appoint a qualified hearing examiner for purposes of taking

    evidence and making recommendations for board action.

        (b)  The board shall consider the recommendations of the examiner in making decisions.

        [(5)] (4) (a)  The board shall uphold the decision of the director or the administration unless

    it finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the decision violated applicable law, policy, or

    rules.

        (b)  The board shall base its final actions on findings and conclusions and shall inform the

    aggrieved party of its right to judicial review.

        [(6)] (5)  An aggrieved party to a final action by the board may obtain judicial review of that

    action under Sections 63-46b-15 and 63-46b-16. 

        Section 2.  Section  53C-2-104 is enacted to read:

         53C-2-104.   Preexisting federal mining claims on trust lands -- Filing of notice --

     Conclusive evidence of abandonment.

        (1)  The Legislature recognizes the importance of having an effective state filing system for

    unpatented federal mining claims located on trust lands prior to the state's acquisition of title that

    would allow the state to determine the extent of preexisting unpatented mining claims on those lands

    and eliminate the cloud on the state's title created by abandoned unpatented mining claims, while

    preserving the rights of owners of valid preexisting unpatented mining claims located on those lands.

        (2)  Prior to January 1, 1998, and annually thereafter on or before December 31, each owner

    of an unpatented lode mining claim, placer mining claim, mill site claim, or tunnel site claim located

    pursuant to the general mining laws of the United States on lands now owned of record by the state

    in trust for the common schools or other beneficiary institutions shall file with the administration

    a notice as prescribed by Subsection (3).

        (3)  The notice required by Subsection (2) shall include:

- 2 -


        (a)  a statement of the owner's intention to hold or abandon the claim;

        (b)  a brief description of the type and nature of the claim;

        (c)  the date the claim was located, and the date the claim was filed of record in county and

    federal records;

        (d)  a copy of the official record of the notice of location or certificate of location of the

    claim; and

        (e)  a legal description of the claim, by legal subdivision or metes and bounds description,

    sufficient to locate the claimed lands on the ground.

        (4) (a)  The administration shall note the existence of all claims for which notices have been

    filed in the central index of all trust lands required under Section 53C-2-101.

        (b)  The administration may impose a reasonable filing fee as a condition for accepting the

    required notices, not to exceed $50 per claim, to defray the administrative costs of maintaining an

    index of claims.

        (5) (a)  Failure to file the notice required by this section constitutes an abandonment of the

    claim by the owner.

        (b)  Filing of the required notice by one owner of a claim in which multiple persons own or

    claim interests fulfills the filing requirements of this section.

        (6)  Filing of a notice under this section does not make valid a claim which is otherwise

    invalid under other applicable law.

        (7)  Acquisition of rights to extract minerals underlying trust lands is governed by Part 4 of

    this chapter.

        (8)  This section does not waive any fees, filings, or other requirements imposed by federal

    law.

        Section 3.  Section  53C-2-301 is amended to read:

         53C-2-301.  Trespassing on trust lands -- Penalties.

        (1)  A person is liable for the civil damages prescribed in Subsection (2) and, unless a greater

    penalty is prescribed in another part of the law, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor if [he] the person,

    without written authorization from the director:

- 3 -


        (a)  removes, extracts, uses, consumes, or destroys any mineral resource, gravel, sand, soil,

    vegetation, or improvement on trust lands;

        (b)  grazes livestock on trust lands;

        (c)  uses, occupies, or constructs improvements or structures on trust lands;

        (d)  uses or occupies trust lands for more than 30 days after the cancellation or expiration of

    written authorization;

        (e)  knowingly and willfully uses trust lands for commercial gain;

        (f)  appropriates, alters, injures, or destroys any improvement or any historical, prehistorical,

    archaeological, or paleontological resource on trust lands;

        (g)  trespasses upon, uses, or occupies trust land;

        (h)  interferes with the activities of an employee or agent of the administration on trust lands;

    or

        (i)  interferes with activities of a lessee or other person which have been authorized by the

    administration.

        (2)  A person who commits any act described in Subsection (1) is liable for damages in the

    amount of:

        (a)  three times the value of the mineral or other resource removed, destroyed, or extracted;

        (b)  three times the amount of damage committed;

        (c)  three times the value of any losses suffered as a result of interference with authorized

    activities; or

        (d)  three times the consideration which would have been charged by the director for use of

    the land during the period of trespass, whichever is greater.

        (3)  In addition to the damages described in Subsection (2), a person found guilty of a

    criminal act under Subsection (1) is subject to the penalties provided in Title 76, Chapter 3,

    Punishments.

        (4)  [Money] The director shall deposit money collected under this section [shall be

    deposited] in the fund in which like revenues from that land would be deposited.

        (5)  The director may award a portion of any of the damages collected under this section in

- 4 -


    excess of actual damages to the general fund of the county in which the trespass occurred as a reward

    for county assistance in the apprehension and prosecution of the trespassing party.

        Section 4.  Section  53C-2-409 is amended to read:

         53C-2-409.  Mineral leases -- Cancellation -- Use of surface land -- Liability for

     damage.

        (1)  Upon violation by the lessee of any lawful provision in a mineral lease, the director may,

    without further notice or appeal, cancel the lease after 30 days notice by registered or certified return

    receipt mail, unless the lessee remedies the violation, rectifies the condition, or requests a hearing

    pursuant to Section 53C-1-304 within the 30 days or within any extension of time the director grants.

        (2) (a)  A mineral lessee, subject to conditions required by the director, has the right at all

    times to enter upon the leasehold for prospecting, exploring, developing, and producing minerals and

    shall have reasonable use of the surface.

        (b)  The lessee may not injure, damage, or destroy the improvements of the surface owner

    or lessee.

        (c)  The lessee is liable to the surface owner or lessee for all damage to the surface of the land

    and improvements, except for reasonable use.

        (3)  Any mineral lessee may occupy as much of the surface of the leased land as may be

    required for all purposes reasonably incident to the exercise of lessee's rights under the lease by:

        (a)  securing the written consent or waiver of the surface owner or lessee;

        (b)  payment for the damage to the surface of the land and improvements to the surface owner

    or lessee where there is agreement as to the amount of the damage; or

        (c)  upon the execution of a good and sufficient bond to the director for the use and benefit

    of the surface owner or lessee of the land to secure the payment of damages as may be determined

    and fixed by agreement or in an action brought upon the bond or undertaking in a court of competent

    jurisdiction against the principal and sureties of the bond. The bond shall be in a form and amount

    as prescribed by the director and shall be filed with the administration. 

        Section 5.  Section  53C-3-101 is amended to read:

         53C-3-101.  Land Grant Management Fund -- Contents -- Use of monies.

- 5 -


        (1) (a)  There is created an [expendable trust] enterprise fund known as the Land Grant

    Management Fund.

        (b)  This fund shall consist of:

        (i)  all revenues derived from trust lands except revenues from the sale of those lands;

        (ii)  all interest earned by the fund; and

        (iii)  all revenues obtained from other activities of the director or administration.

        (2)  The director may expend monies from the Land Grant Management Fund in accordance

    with the approved budget for the support of director and administration activities.

        (3)  Any amount in excess of that required to fund the budget shall be distributed to the

    various trust beneficiaries as of June 30 of each calendar year, and at other times determined by the

    director, in shares equal to the portion of total Land Grant Management Fund revenues obtained

    from each beneficiary's land during the accounting period.

        (4)  Money from the lease or rental of school trust lands or from the use, sale, or lease of 

    resources on school trust lands, all sums paid for fees, including grazing fees, and all forfeitures or

    penalties received in connection with those transactions shall be deposited in the Permanent State

    School Fund.

        (5)  Money from the lease or rental of lands acquired by the state for the benefit of an

    institution named in Sections 7, 8, and 12 of the Utah Enabling Act, or from the use, sale, or lease

    of renewable or nonrenewable resources on those lands, and all forfeitures or penalties received in

    connection with those transactions, shall be distributed to the institution.

        (6)  Any remaining monies, including interest earned on the account, shall be distributed in

    pro rata shares to the various beneficiaries.

- 6 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







