Sponsors: []Modifications: (3)  Nothing in Section 

63-2-206

 may be construed as limiting the authority of the divisionto report current significant investigative information to the coordinated licensure informationsystem for transmission to party states as required of the division by Article VII of the NurseLicensure Compact in Section 

58-31c-102

.and controlled by(4)  "Current significant investigative information" means:(a)  investigative information that a licensing board, after a preliminary inquiry that includesnotification and an opportunity for the nurse to respond if required by state law, has reason to believeis not groundless and, if proved true, would indicate more than a minor infraction; or(b)  investigative information that indicates that the nurse represents an immediate threat topublic health and safety regardless of whether the nurse has been notified and had an opportunity torespond.(5)(6)(7)(8)All party states have the authority, in accordance with existing state due processlaw, to take actions against the nurse's privilege such as: revocation, suspension, probation, or anyother action which affects a nurse's authorization to practice.(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14), in accordance with state due process laws,if otherwise permitted by state law,states' licensing boardsactions against multistate licensureprivileges, any current significant(3)  Current significant investigative information shall be transmitted through the coordinatedlicensure information system only to party state licensing boards.(4)states' licensing boards(5)  Any personally identifiable information obtained by a party states' licensing board fromthe coordinated licensure information system may not be shared with non-party states or disclosedto other entities or individuals except to the extent permitted by the laws of the party statecontributing the information.(6)  Any information contributed to the coordinated licensure information system that issubsequently required to be expunged by the laws of the party state contributing that information,shall also be expunged from the coordinated licensure information system.(7)    58-31c-103.(1)  Notwithstanding Sections 

58-31b-308

 and 

58-31c-102

, a nurse licensed by a party statewhose license is in any way restricted or otherwise subject to disciplinary action on January 1, 2000,or the date on which the nurse's home state adopts the Nurse Licensure Compact, may not practiceas a registered nurse in this state without the express permission of the division in consultation withthe Board of Nursing created in Section 

58-31b-201

.(2)  Notwithstanding Section 

58-31c-102

, unprofessional conduct under Section 

58-31b-502

includes practicing in a party state without first obtaining the express permission of that state if thenurse's license issued under Section 

58-31b-301

 is in anyway restricted or otherwise subject todisciplinary action on January 1, 2000.Sections 

58-31c-102

 and 

58-31c-103

 take effect January 1, 2000.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0026.ZIP 14,528 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 26 Enrolled





            

    
NURSE REGISTRATION INTERSTATE COMPACT AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  L. Alma Mansell

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO OCCUPATIONS AND PROFESSIONS; AMENDING THE NURSE
            

    
LICENSURE COMPACT REGARDING PARTY STATE AUTHORITY TO TAKE ACTION
            

    
AGAINST A NURSE'S AUTHORIZATION TO PRACTICE; CLARIFYING WHAT IS
            

    
ACCEPTABLE PARTY STATE LICENSING BOARD USE OF INFORMATION OBTAINED
            

    
FROM THE COORDINATED LICENSURE INFORMATION SYSTEM; CLARIFYING
            

    
EXPUNGEMENT REQUIREMENTS; CLARIFYING INTERSTATE PRACTICE
            

    
RESTRICTIONS WHEN A LICENSE IS SUBJECT TO DISCIPLINARY ACTION ON THE
            

    
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE NURSE LICENSURE COMPACT; AND PROVIDING AN
            

    
EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     58-31b-401, as enacted by Chapter 288, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     58-31c-102 (Effective 01/01/00), as enacted by Chapter 189, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     58-31c-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
58-31b-401

 is amended to read:
            

    
     58-31b-401.  Grounds for denial of licensure and disciplinary proceedings.
            

    
    (1)  Grounds for refusal to issue a license to an applicant, for refusal to renew the license
            

    
of a licensee, to revoke, suspend, restrict, or place on probation the license of a licensee, to issue
            

    
a public or private reprimand to a licensee, and to issue cease and desist orders shall be in
            

    
accordance with Section 

58-1-401

.
            

    
    (2) (a)  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that a nurse is an "incapacitated
            

    
person" as defined in Section 

75-1-201

, the director shall suspend the license of the nurse upon
            

    
entry of the judgment, regardless of the pendency of an appeal.

            

    
    (b)  If it appears to the board that there is reasonable cause to believe that a nurse, even
            

    
though the nurse has not been judicially determined to be incompetent, mentally incompetent, or
            

    
incapable, is unable to practice nursing with reasonable skill and safety to patients because of illness,
            

    
drunkenness, excessive use of drugs, narcotics, chemical, or any other type of material, or as a result
            

    
of any mental or physical condition, a complaint in the name of the board shall be served upon the
            

    
nurse for hearing on the sole issue of the capacity of the nurse to conduct properly the practice of
            

    
nursing.
            

    
    (c) (i)  Failure of a nurse to submit to a mental or physical examination within 30 days when
            

    
directed by the board in connection with a hearing instituted under Subsection (2)(b) constitutes
            

    
grounds for immediate suspension of the nurse's license, unless the failure was due to circumstances
            

    
beyond the control of the nurse.
            

    
    (ii)  A licensee who submits to an examination under this Subsection (2) waives all
            

    
objections to the admissibility of an examining physician's testimony or examination report on the
            

    
ground that they constitute a privileged communication.
            

    
    (iii)  The director may enter an order of suspension of the license without the taking of
            

    
testimony or the presentation of evidence upon a finding of reasonable cause to believe that an order
            

    
of suspension is necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare, if a hearing is scheduled
            

    
to occur within 30 days of the order of suspension.
            

    
    (d)  A nurse whose license is suspended under Subsection (2) shall, at reasonable intervals
            

    
defined by rule, be afforded the opportunity to demonstrate that the nurse can resume the competent
            

    
practice of nursing with reasonable skill and safety to patients.
            

    
    (3)  Nothing in Section 

63-2-206

 may be construed as limiting the authority of the division
            

    
to report current significant investigative information to the coordinated licensure information
            

    
system for transmission to party states as required of the division by Article VII of the Nurse
            

    
Licensure Compact in Section 

58-31c-102

.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
58-31c-102 (Effective 01/01/00)

 is amended to read:
            

    
     58-31c-102 (Effective 01/01/00).  Nurse Licensure Compact.
            

    
    The Nurse Licensure Compact is hereby enacted and entered into with all other jurisdictions

- 2 -

            

    
that legally join in the compact, which is, in form, substantially as follows:
            

    
NURSE LICENSURE COMPACT

            

    
ARTICLE I

            

    
FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

            

    
    (1)  The party states find that:
            

    
    (a)  the health and safety of the public are affected by the degree of compliance with and the
            

    
effectiveness of enforcement activities related to state nurse licensure laws;
            

    
    (b)  violations of nurse licensure and other laws regulating the practice of nursing may result
            

    
in injury or harm to the public;
            

    
    (c)  the expanded mobility of nurses and the use of advanced communication technologies
            

    
as part of our nation's health care delivery system require greater coordination and cooperation
            

    
among states in the areas of nurse licensure and regulation;
            

    
    (d)  new practice modalities and technology make compliance with individual state nurse
            

    
licensure laws difficult and complex; and
            

    
    (e)  the current system of duplicative licensure for nurses practicing in multiple states is
            

    
cumbersome and redundant to both nurses and states.
            

    
    (2)  The general purposes of this compact are to:
            

    
    (a)  facilitate the states' responsibility to protect the public's health and safety;
            

    
    (b)  ensure and encourage the cooperation of party states in the areas of nurse licensure and
            

    
regulation;
            

    
    (c)  facilitate the exchange of information between party states in the areas of nurse
            

    
regulation, investigation, and adverse actions;
            

    
    (d)  promote compliance with the laws governing the practice of nursing in each jurisdiction;
            

    
and
            

    
    (e)  invest all party states with the authority to hold a nurse accountable for meeting all state
            

    
practice laws in the state in which the patient is located at the time care is rendered through the
            

    
mutual recognition of party state licenses.
            

    
ARTICLE II


- 3 -

            

    
DEFINITIONS

            

    
    As used in this compact:
            

    
    (1)  "Adverse action" means a home or remote state action.
            

    
    (2)  "Alternative program" means a voluntary, non-disciplinary monitoring program approved
            

    
by a nurse licensing board.
            

    
    (3)  "Coordinated licensure information system" means an integrated process for collecting,
            

    
storing, and sharing information on nurse licensure and enforcement activities related to nurse
            

    
licensure laws, which is administered by a non-profit organization composed of and controlled by
            

    
state nurse licensing boards.
            

    
    (4)  "Current significant investigative information" means:
            

    
    (a)  investigative information that a licensing board, after a preliminary inquiry that includes
            

    
notification and an opportunity for the nurse to respond if required by state law, has reason to believe
            

    
is not groundless and, if proved true, would indicate more than a minor infraction; or
            

    
    (b)  investigative information that indicates that the nurse represents an immediate threat to
            

    
public health and safety regardless of whether the nurse has been notified and had an opportunity to
            

    
respond.
            

    
    [(4)] (5)  "Home state" means the party state which is the nurse's primary state of residence.
            

    
    [(5)] (6)  "Home state action" means any administrative, civil, equitable, or criminal action
            

    
permitted by the home state's laws which are imposed on a nurse by the home state's licensing board
            

    
or other authority including actions against an individual's license such as: revocation, suspension,
            

    
probation, or any other action which affects a nurse's authorization to practice.
            

    
    [(6)] (7)  "Licensing board" means a party state's regulatory body responsible for issuing
            

    
nurse licenses.
            

    
    [(7)] (8)  "Multistate licensure privilege" means current, official authority from a remote state
            

    
permitting the practice of nursing as either a registered nurse or a licensed practical/vocational nurse
            

    
in such party state.  All party states have the authority, in accordance with existing state due process
            

    
law, to take actions against the nurse's privilege such as: revocation, suspension, probation, or any
            

    
other action which affects a nurse's authorization to practice.

- 4 -

            

    
    [(8)] (9)  "Nurse" means a registered nurse or licensed practical/vocational nurse, as those
            

    
terms are defined by each party's state practice laws.
            

    
    [(9)] (10)  "Party state" means any state that has adopted this compact.
            

    
    [(10)] (11)  "Remote state" means a party state, other than the home state:
            

    
    (a)  where the patient is located at the time nursing care is provided; or
            

    
    (b)  in the case of the practice of nursing not involving a patient, in such party state where
            

    
the recipient of nursing practice is located.
            

    
    [(11)] (12)  "Remote state action" means:
            

    
    (a)  any administrative, civil, equitable, or criminal action permitted by a remote state's laws
            

    
which are imposed on a nurse by the remote state's licensing board or other authority including
            

    
actions against an individual's multistate licensure privilege to practice in the remote state; and
            

    
    (b)  cease and desist and other injunctive or equitable orders issued by remote states or the
            

    
licensing boards thereof.
            

    
    [(12)] (13)  "State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
            

    
of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
            

    
    [(13)] (14)  "State practice laws" means those individual party's state laws and regulations
            

    
that govern the practice of nursing, define the scope of nursing practice, and create the methods and
            

    
grounds for imposing discipline.  "State practice laws" does not include the initial qualifications for
            

    
licensure or requirements necessary to obtain and retain a license, except for qualifications or
            

    
requirements of the home state.
            

    
ARTICLE III

            

    
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND JURISDICTION

            

    
    (1)  A license to practice registered nursing issued by a home state to a resident in that state
            

    
will be recognized by each party state as authorizing a multistate licensure privilege to practice as
            

    
a registered nurse in such party state.  A license to practice licensed practical/vocational nursing
            

    
issued by a home state to a resident in that state will be recognized by each party state as authorizing
            

    
a multistate licensure privilege to practice as a licensed practical/vocational nurse in such party state. 
            

    
In order to obtain or retain a license, an applicant must meet the home state's qualifications for

- 5 -

            

    
licensure and license renewal as well as all other applicable state laws.
            

    
    (2)  Party states, in accordance with state due process laws, may limit or revoke the multistate
            

    
licensure privilege of any nurse to practice in their state and may take any other [adverse] actions
            

    
under their applicable state laws necessary to protect the health and safety of their citizens.  If a party
            

    
state takes such action, it shall promptly notify the administrator of the coordinated licensure
            

    
information system.  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall
            

    
promptly notify the home state of any such actions by remote states.
            

    
    (3)  Every nurse practicing in a party state must comply with the state practice laws of the
            

    
state in which the patient is located at the time care is rendered.  In addition, the practice of nursing
            

    
is not limited to patient care, but shall include all nursing practice as defined by the state practice
            

    
laws of a party state.  The practice of nursing will subject a nurse to the jurisdiction of the nurse
            

    
licensing board and the courts, as well as the laws, in that party state.
            

    
    (4)  This compact does not affect additional requirements imposed by states for advanced
            

    
practice registered nursing.  However, a multistate licensure privilege to practice registered nursing
            

    
granted by a party state shall be recognized by other party states as a license to practice registered
            

    
nursing if one is required by state law as a precondition for qualifying for advanced practice
            

    
registered nurse authorization.
            

    
    (5)  Individuals not residing in a party state shall continue to be able to apply for nurse
            

    
licensure as provided for under the laws of each party state.  However, the license granted to these
            

    
individuals will not be recognized as granting the privilege to practice nursing in any other party 
            
    
state
            

    
unless explicitly agreed to by that party state.
            

    
ARTICLE IV

            

    
APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSURE IN A PARTY STATE

            

    
    (1)  Upon application for a license, the licensing board in a party state shall ascertain, through
            

    
the coordinated licensure information system, whether the applicant has ever held, or is the holder
            

    
of, a license issued by any other party state, whether there are any restrictions on the multistate
            

    
licensure privilege, and whether any other adverse action by any state has been taken against the
            

    
license.

- 6 -

            

    
    (2)  A nurse in a party state shall hold licensure in only one party state at a time, issued by
            

    
the home state.
            

    
    (3)  A nurse who intends to change primary state of residence may apply for licensure in the
            

    
new home state in advance of such change.  However, new licenses will not be issued by a party state
            

    
until after a nurse provides evidence of change in primary state of residence satisfactory to the new
            

    
home state's licensing board.
            

    
    (4)  When a nurse changes primary state of residence by:
            

    
    (a)  moving between two party states, and obtains a license from the new home state, the
            

    
license from the former home state is no longer valid;
            

    
    (b)  moving from a non-party state to a party state, and obtains a license from the new home
            

    
state, the individual state license issued by the non-party state is not affected and will remain in full
            

    
force if so provided by the laws of the non-party state;
            

    
    (c)  moving from a party state to a non-party state, the license issued by the prior home state
            

    
converts to an individual state license, valid only in the former home state, without the multistate
            

    
licensure privilege to practice in other party states.
            

    
ARTICLE V

            

    
ADVERSE ACTIONS

            

    
    In addition to the General Provisions described in Article III, the following provisions apply:
            

    
    (1)  The licensing board of a remote state shall promptly report to the administrator of the
            

    
coordinated licensure information system any remote state actions including the factual and legal
            

    
basis for such action, if known.  The licensing board of a remote state shall also promptly report any
            

    
significant current investigative information yet to result in a remote state action.  The administrator
            

    
of the coordinated licensure information system shall promptly notify the home state of any such
            

    
reports.
            

    
    (2)  The licensing board of a party state shall have the authority to complete any pending
            

    
investigations for a nurse who changes primary state of residence during the course of such
            

    
investigations.  It shall also have the authority to take appropriate action(s), and shall promptly report
            

    
the conclusions of such investigations to the administrator of the coordinated licensure information

- 7 -

            

    
system.  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall promptly notify the
            

    
new home state of any such actions.
            

    
    (3)  A remote state may take adverse action affecting the multistate licensure privilege to
            

    
practice within that party state.  However, only the home state shall have the power to impose
            

    
adverse action against the license issued by the home state.
            

    
    (4)  For purposes of imposing adverse action, the licensing board of the home state shall give
            

    
the same priority and effect to reported conduct received from a remote state as it would if such
            

    
conduct had occurred within the home state.  In so doing, it shall apply its own state laws to
            

    
determine appropriate action.
            

    
    (5)  The home state may take adverse action based on the factual findings of the remote state,
            

    
so long as each state follows its own procedures for imposing such adverse action.
            

    
    (6)  Nothing in this compact shall override a party state's decision that participation in an
            

    
alternative program may be used in lieu of licensure action and that such participation shall remain
            

    
non-public if required by the party state's laws.  Party states must require nurses who enter any
            

    
alternative programs to agree not to practice in any other party state during the term of the alternative
            

    
program without prior authorization from such other party state.
            

    
ARTICLE VI

            

    
ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES INVESTED IN

            

    
PARTY STATE NURSE LICENSING BOARDS

            

    
    Notwithstanding any other powers, party state nurse licensing boards shall have the authority
            

    
to:
            

    
    (1)  if otherwise permitted by state law, recover from the affected nurse the costs of
            

    
investigations and disposition of cases resulting from any adverse action taken against that nurse;
            

    
    (2)  issue subpoenas for both hearings and investigations which require the attendance and
            

    
testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence.  Subpoenas issued by a nurse licensing board
            

    
in a party state for the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and/or the production of evidence from
            

    
another party state, shall be enforced in the latter state by any court of competent jurisdiction,
            

    
according to the practice and procedure of that court applicable to subpoenas issued in proceedings

- 8 -

            

    
pending before it.  The issuing authority shall pay any witness fees, travel expenses, mileage, and
            

    
other fees required by the service statutes of the state where the witnesses and/or evidence are
            

    
located;
            

    
    (3)  issue cease and desist orders to limit or revoke a nurse's authority to practice in their
            

    
state; and
            

    
    (4)  promulgate uniform rules and regulations as provided for in Article VIII(3).
            

    
ARTICLE VII

            

    
COORDINATED LICENSURE INFORMATION SYSTEM

            

    
    (1)  All party states shall participate in a cooperative effort to create a coordinated data base
            

    
of all licensed registered nurses and licensed practical/vocational nurses.  This system will include
            

    
information on the licensure and disciplinary history of each nurse, as contributed by party states,
            

    
to assist in the coordination of nurse licensure and enforcement efforts.
            

    
    (2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party [states] states' licensing boards
            

    
shall promptly report adverse actions, [any significant current] actions against multistate licensure
            

    
privileges, any current significant investigative information yet to result in adverse action, denials
            

    
of applications, and the reasons for such denials, to the coordinated licensure information system.
            

    
    (3)  Current significant investigative information shall be transmitted through the coordinated
            

    
licensure information system only to party state licensing boards.
            

    
    [(3)] (4)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party [states] states' licensing boards
            

    
contributing information to the coordinated licensure information system may designate information
            

    
that may not be shared with non-party states or disclosed to other entities or individuals without the
            

    
express permission of the contributing state.
            

    
    (5)  Any personally identifiable information obtained by a party states' licensing board from
            

    
the coordinated licensure information system may not be shared with non-party states or disclosed
            

    
to other entities or individuals except to the extent permitted by the laws of the party state
            

    
contributing the information.
            

    
    (6)  Any information contributed to the coordinated licensure information system that is
            

    
subsequently required to be expunged by the laws of the party state contributing that information,

- 9 -

            

    
shall also be expunged from the coordinated licensure information system.
            

    
    [(4)] (7)  The compact administrators, acting jointly with each other and in consultation with
            

    
the administrator of the coordinated licensure information system, shall formulate necessary and
            

    
proper procedures for the identification, collection, and exchange of information under this compact.
            

    
ARTICLE VIII

            

    
COMPACT ADMINISTRATION AND INTERCHANGE OF INFORMATION

            

    
    (1)  The head of the nurse licensing board, or his/her designee, of each party state shall be
            

    
the administrator of this compact for his/her state.
            

    
    (2)  The compact administrator of each party state shall furnish to the compact administrator
            

    
of each other party state any information and documents including, but not limited to, a uniform data
            

    
set of investigations, identifying information, licensure data, and disclosable alternative program
            

    
participation information to facilitate the administration of this compact.
            

    
    (3)  Compact administrators shall have the authority to develop uniform rules to facilitate and
            

    
coordinate implementation of this compact.  These uniform rules shall be adopted by party states
            

    
under the authority invested under Article VI(4).
            

    
ARTICLE IX

            

    
IMMUNITY

            

    
    No party state or the officers or employees or agents of a party state's nurse licensing board[,
            

    
the administrator of the Coordinated Licensure Information System, or any other authority or
            

    
administrator] who acts in accordance with the provisions of this compact shall be liable on account
            

    
of any act or omission in good faith while engaged in the performance of their duties under this
            

    
compact.  Good faith in this article shall not include willful misconduct, gross negligence, or
            

    
recklessness.
            

    
ARTICLE X

            

    
ENTRY INTO FORCE, WITHDRAWAL, AND AMENDMENT

            

    
    (1)  This compact shall enter into force and become effective as to any state when it has been
            

    
enacted into the laws of that state.  Any party state may withdraw from this compact by enacting a
            

    
statute repealing the same, but no such withdrawal shall take effect until six months after the

- 10 -

            

    
withdrawing state has given notice of the withdrawal to the executive heads of all other party states.
            

    
    (2)  No withdrawal shall affect the validity or applicability by the licensing boards of states
            

    
remaining party to the compact of any report of adverse action occurring prior to the withdrawal.
            

    
    (3)  Nothing contained in this compact shall be construed to invalidate or prevent any nurse
            

    
licensure agreement or other cooperative arrangement between a party state and a non-party state that
            

    
is made in accordance with the other provisions of this compact.
            

    
    (4)  This compact may be amended by the party states.  No amendment to this compact shall
            

    
become effective and binding upon the party states unless and until it is enacted into the laws of all
            

    
party states.
            

    
ARTICLE XI

            

    
CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY

            

    
    (1)  This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes thereof.  The
            

    
provisions of this compact shall be severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this
            

    
compact is declared to be contrary to the constitution of any party state or of the United States or the
            

    
applicability thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid, the validity
            

    
of the remainder of this compact and the applicability thereof to any government, agency, person,
            

    
or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.  If this compact shall be held contrary to the
            

    
constitution of any state party thereto, the compact shall remain in full force and effect as to the
            

    
remaining party states and in full force and effect as to the party state affected as to a severable
            

    
matter.
            

    
    (2)  In the event party states find a need for settling disputes arising under this compact:
            

    
    (a)  the party states may submit the issues in dispute to an arbitration panel which will be
            

    
comprised of an individual appointed by the compact administrator in the home state; an individual
            

    
appointed by the compact administrator in the remote state(s) involved; and an individual mutually
            

    
agreed upon by the compact administrators of all the party states involved in the dispute; and
            

    
    (b)  the decision of a majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
58-31c-103

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     58-31c-103.  Pending disciplinary actions.

- 11 -

            

    
    (1)  Notwithstanding Sections 

58-31b-308

 and 

58-31c-102

, a nurse licensed by a party state
            

    
whose license is in any way restricted or otherwise subject to disciplinary action on January 1, 2000,
            

    
or the date on which the nurse's home state adopts the Nurse Licensure Compact, may not practice
            

    
as a registered nurse in this state without the express permission of the division in consultation with
            

    
the Board of Nursing created in Section 

58-31b-201

.
            

    
    (2)  Notwithstanding Section 

58-31c-102

, unprofessional conduct under Section 

58-31b-502


            

    
includes practicing in a party state without first obtaining the express permission of that state if the
            

    
nurse's license issued under Section 

58-31b-301

 is in anyway restricted or otherwise subject to
            

    
disciplinary action on January 1, 2000.
            

    
    Section 4.   Effective date.
            

    
    Sections 

58-31c-102

 and 

58-31c-103

 take effect January 1, 2000.

- 12 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







