Sponsors: []Modifications: Section 

76-10-500

    76-10-500.(1)  The individual right to keep and bear arms being a constitutionally protected right, theLegislature finds the need to provide uniform laws throughout the state.  Except as specificallyprovided by state law, a citizen of the United States or a lawfully admitted alien shall not be:(a)  prohibited from owning, possessing, purchasing, transporting, or keeping any firearm athis place of residence, property, business, or in any vehicle under his control; or(b)  required to have a permit or license to purchase, own, possess, transport, or keep afirearm.(2)  This part is uniformly applicable throughout this state and in all its political subdivisionsand municipalities.   All authority to regulate  firearms shall be reserved to the state except wherethe Legislature specifically delegates responsibility to local authorities.  Unless specificallyauthorized by the Legislature by statute, a local authority may not enact or enforce any ordinance,regulation, or rule pertaining to firearms.(1) (a)(b)(2)(3)(4)(a)(b)(c)(d)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0091.ZIP 9,521 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 91 Enrolled





            

    
WEAPONS - TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Michael G. Waddoups

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO CRIMINAL CODE; SEPARATING INTO TWO SECTIONS
            

    
PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEFINITIONS AND UNIFORM LAW TO FACILITATE THE
            

    
ADDITION OF DEFINITIONS IN THE FUTURE; AND MAKING TECHNICAL
            

    
CORRECTIONS.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     76-8-311.3, as last amended by Chapter 288, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     76-10-501, as last amended by Chapter 263, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     76-10-500, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
76-8-311.3

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-8-311.3.  Items prohibited in correctional and mental health facilities -- Penalties.
            

    
    (1)  As used in this section:
            

    
    (a)  "Contraband" means any item not specifically prohibited for possession by offenders
            

    
under this section or Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act.
            

    
    (b)  "Controlled substance" means any substance defined as a controlled substance under
            

    
Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act.
            

    
    (c)  "Correctional facility" means:
            

    
    (i)  any facility operated by the Department of Corrections to house offenders in either a
            

    
secure or nonsecure setting;
            

    
    (ii)  any facility operated by a municipality or a county to house or detain criminal
            

    
offenders;
            

    
    (iii)  any juvenile detention facility; and
            

    
    (iv)  any building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or lands granted to the state,

            


    
municipality, or county for use as a correctional facility.
            

    
    (d)  "Medicine" means any prescription drug as defined in Title 58, Chapter 17a, Pharmacy
            

    
Practice Act, but does not include any controlled substances as defined in Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah
            

    
Controlled Substances Act.
            

    
    (e)  "Mental health facility" has the same meaning as defined in Section 

62A-12-202

.
            

    
    (f)  "Offender" means a person in custody at a correctional facility.
            

    
    (g)  "Secure area" has the same meaning as provided in Section 

76-8-311.1

.
            

    
    (2) Notwithstanding [any other statute to the contrary, including Subsection 

76-10-501

(b)]
            

    
Section 

76-10-500

, a correctional or mental health facility may provide by rule that no firearm,
            

    
ammunition, dangerous weapon, implement of escape, explosive, controlled substance, spirituous
            

    
or fermented liquor, medicine, or poison in any quantity may be:
            

    
    (a)  transported to or upon a correctional or mental health facility;
            

    
    (b)  sold or given away at any correctional or mental health facility;
            

    
    (c)  given to or used by any offender at a correctional or mental health facility; or
            

    
    (d)  knowingly or intentionally possessed at a correctional or mental health facility.
            

    
    (3)  It is a defense to any prosecution under this section if the accused in committing the act
            

    
made criminal by this section:
            

    
    (a)  with respect to a correctional facility operated by the Department of Corrections, acted
            

    
in conformity with departmental rule or policy;
            

    
    (b)  with respect to a correctional facility operated by a municipality, acted in conformity
            

    
with the policy of the municipality;
            

    
    (c)  with respect to a correctional facility operated by a county, acted in conformity with the
            

    
policy of the county; or
            

    
    (d)  with respect to a mental health facility, acted in conformity with the policy of the mental
            

    
health facility.
            

    
    (4) (a)  Any person who transports to or upon a correctional facility, or into a secure area of
            

    
a mental health facility, any firearm, ammunition, dangerous weapon, explosive, or implement of
            

    
escape with intent to provide or sell it to any offender, is guilty of a second degree felony.

            


    
    (b)  Any person who provides or sells to any offender at a correctional facility, or any
            

    
detainee at a secure area of a mental health facility, any firearm, ammunition, dangerous weapon,
            

    
explosive, or implement of escape is guilty of a second degree felony.
            

    
    (c)  Any offender who possesses at a correctional facility, or any detainee who possesses at
            

    
a secure area of a mental health facility, any firearm, ammunition, dangerous weapon, explosive, or
            

    
implement of escape is guilty of a second degree felony.
            

    
    (d)  Any person who, without the permission of the authority operating the correctional
            

    
facility or the secure area of a mental health facility, knowingly possesses at a correctional facility
            

    
or a secure area of a mental health facility any firearm, ammunition, dangerous weapon, implement
            

    
of escape, or explosive is guilty of a third degree felony.
            

    
    (5) (a) A person is guilty of a third degree felony who, without the permission of the
            

    
authority operating the correctional facility or secure area of a mental health facility, knowingly
            

    
transports to or upon a correctional facility or into a secure area of a mental health facility any:
            

    
    (i)  spirituous or fermented liquor;
            

    
    (ii)  medicine, whether or not lawfully prescribed for the offender; or
            

    
    (iii)  poison in any quantity.
            

    
    (b) A person is guilty of a third degree felony who knowingly violates correctional or mental
            

    
health facility policy or rule by providing or selling to any offender at a correctional facility or
            

    
detainee within a secure area of a mental health facility any:
            

    
    (i)  spirituous or fermented liquor;
            

    
    (ii)  medicine, whether or not lawfully prescribed for the offender; or
            

    
    (iii)  poison in any quantity.
            

    
    (c) An inmate is guilty of a third degree felony who, in violation of correctional or mental
            

    
health facility policy or rule, possesses at a correctional facility or in a secure area of a mental health
            

    
facility any:
            

    
    (i)  spirituous or fermented liquor;
            

    
    (ii)  medicine, other than medicine provided by the facility's health care providers in
            

    
compliance with facility policy; or

            


    
    (iii)  poison in any quantity.
            

    
    (d) A person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor who, without the permission of the authority
            

    
operating the correctional or mental health facility, fails to declare or knowingly possesses at a
            

    
correctional facility or in a secure area of a mental health facility any:
            

    
    (i)  spirituous or fermented liquor;
            

    
    (ii)  medicine; or
            

    
    (iii)  poison in any quantity.
            

    
    (e)  A person is guilty of a class B misdemeanor who, without the permission of the authority
            

    
operating the facility, knowingly engages in any activity that would facilitate the possession of any
            

    
contraband by an offender in a correctional facility.
            

    
    (f)  Exemptions may be granted for worship for Native American inmates pursuant to Section
            

    

64-13-40

.
            

    
    (6)  The possession, distribution, or use of a controlled substance at a correctional facility or
            

    
in a secure area of a mental health facility shall be prosecuted in accordance with Title 58, Chapter
            

    
37, Utah Controlled Substances Act.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
76-10-500

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     76-10-500.  Uniform law.
            

    
    (1)  The individual right to keep and bear arms being a constitutionally protected right, the
            

    
Legislature finds the need to provide uniform laws throughout the state.  Except as specifically
            

    
provided by state law, a citizen of the United States or a lawfully admitted alien shall not be:
            

    
    (a)  prohibited from owning, possessing, purchasing, transporting, or keeping any firearm at
            

    
his place of residence, property, business, or in any vehicle under his control; or
            

    
    (b)  required to have a permit or license to purchase, own, possess, transport, or keep a
            

    
firearm.
            

    
    (2)  This part is uniformly applicable throughout this state and in all its political subdivisions
            

    
and municipalities.   All authority to regulate  firearms shall be reserved to the state except where
            

    
the Legislature specifically delegates responsibility to local authorities.  Unless specifically
            

    
authorized by the Legislature by statute, a local authority may not enact or enforce any ordinance,

            


    
regulation, or rule pertaining to firearms.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
76-10-501

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-10-501.  Definitions.  
            

    
    [(1) (a)  The individual right to keep and bear arms being a constitutionally protected right,
            

    
the Legislature finds the need to provide uniform laws throughout the state.  Except as specifically
            

    
provided by state law, a citizen of the United States or a lawfully admitted alien shall not be:]
            

    
    [(i)  prohibited from owning, possessing, purchasing, transporting, or keeping any firearm
            

    
at his place of residence, property, business, or in any vehicle under his control; or]
            

    
    [(ii)  required to have a permit or license to purchase, own, possess, transport, or keep a
            

    
firearm.]
            

    
    [(b)  This part is uniformly applicable throughout this state and in all its political subdivisions
            

    
and municipalities.   All authority to regulate  firearms shall be reserved to the state except where
            

    
the Legislature specifically delegates responsibility to local authorities.  Unless specifically
            

    
authorized by the Legislature by statute, a local authority may not enact or enforce any ordinance,
            

    
regulation, or rule pertaining to firearms.]
            

    
    [(2)]  As used in this part:
            

    
    [(a) (i)] (1) (a)  "Concealed dangerous weapon" means a dangerous weapon that is covered,
            

    
hidden, or secreted in a manner that the public would not be aware of its presence and is readily
            

    
accessible for immediate use.
            

    
    [(ii)] (b) A dangerous weapon shall not be considered a concealed dangerous weapon if it is
            

    
a firearm which is unloaded and is securely encased.
            

    
    [(b)] (2)  "Crime of violence" means aggravated murder, murder, manslaughter, rape,
            

    
mayhem, kidnapping, robbery, burglary, housebreaking, extortion, or blackmail accompanied by
            

    
threats of violence, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault with intent to commit any offense
            

    
punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, arson punishable by imprisonment for more
            

    
than one year, or an attempt to commit any of these offenses.
            

    
    [(c)] (3)  "Criminal history background check" means a criminal background check
            

    
conducted by a licensed firearms dealer on every purchaser of a handgun through the division or the

            


    
local law enforcement agency where the firearms dealer conducts business.
            

    
    [(d)] (4)  "Dangerous weapon" means any item that in the manner of its use or intended use
            

    
is capable of causing death or serious bodily injury.  The following factors shall be used in
            

    
determining whether a knife, or any other item, object, or thing not commonly known as a dangerous
            

    
weapon is a dangerous weapon:
            

    
    [(i)] (a)  the character of the instrument, object, or thing;
            

    
    [(ii)] (b)  the character of the wound produced, if any; 
            

    
    [(iii)] (c)  the manner in which the instrument, object, or thing was used; and
            

    
    [(iv)] (d)  the other lawful purposes for which the instrument, object, or thing may be used.
            

    
    [(e)] (5)  "Dealer" means every person who is licensed under crimes and criminal procedure,
            

    
18 U.S.C. 923 and engaged in the business of selling, leasing, or otherwise transferring a handgun,
            

    
whether the person is a retail or wholesale dealer, pawnbroker, or otherwise.
            

    
    [(f)] (6)  "Division" means the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division of
            

    
the Department of Public Safety, created in Section 

53-10-103

.
            

    
    [(g)] (7)  "Firearm" means a pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed-off  shotgun, rifle or sawed-off
            

    
rifle, or any device that could be used as a dangerous weapon from which is expelled a projectile by 
            

    
action of an explosive.
            

    
    [(h)] (8)  "Fully automatic weapon" means any firearm which fires, is designed to fire, or can
            

    
be readily restored to fire, automatically more than one shot without manual reloading by a single
            

    
function of the trigger.
            

    
    [(i)] (9)  "Firearms transaction record form" means a form created by the division to be
            

    
completed by a person purchasing, selling, or transferring a handgun from a dealer in the state.
            

    
    [(j)] (10)  "Handgun" means a pistol, revolver, or other firearm of any description, loaded or
            

    
unloaded, from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged, the length of which, not
            

    
including any revolving, detachable, or magazine breech, does not exceed 12 inches.
            

    
    [(k)] (11)  "Prohibited area" means any place where it is unlawful to discharge a firearm.
            

    
    [(l)] (12)  "Readily accessible for immediate use" means that a firearm or other dangerous
            

    
weapon is carried on the person or within such close proximity and in such a manner that it can be

            


    
retrieved and used as readily as if carried on the person.
            

    
    [(m)] (13)  "Sawed-off shotgun" or "sawed-off rifle" means a shotgun having a barrel or
            

    
barrels of fewer than 18 inches in length, or in the case of a rifle, having a barrel or barrels of fewer
            

    
than 16 inches in length, or any dangerous weapon made from a rifle or shotgun by alteration,
            

    
modification, or otherwise, if the weapon as modified has an overall length of fewer than 26 inches.
            

    
    [(n)] (14)  "Securely encased" means not readily accessible for immediate use, such as held
            

    
in a gun rack, or in a closed case or container, whether or not locked, or in a trunk or other storage
            

    
area of a motor vehicle, not including a glove box or console box.
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







