Sponsors: []Modifications: (1)  "Bodily injury" means as defined in Section 76-1-601.(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)  "Serious bodily injury" means as defined in Section 76-1-601.(14)(15)  "Tough man contest" means a contest in which tough man contestants compete.(16)  "Tough man contestant" means a person who:(a)  participates in a contest for a cash purse in any amount or for a noncash purse with morethan nominal value as defined by rule; and(b)  is not licensed as a professional contestant in any state.(17)  "Ultimate fighting match" means a live match in which:(a)  an admission fee is charged;(b)  match rules permit professional contestants to use a combination of boxing, kicking,wrestling, hitting, punching, or other combative, contact techniques; and(c)  match rules do not:(i)  incorporate a formalized system of combative techniques against which a contestant'sperformance is judged to determine the prevailing contestant;(ii)  divide a match into two or more equal and specified time periods for a match total of nomore than 50 minutes; or(iii)  prohibit contestants from:(A)  using anything that is not part of the human body, except for boxing gloves, tointentionally inflict serious bodily injury upon an opponent through direct contact or the expulsionof a projectile;(B)  striking a person who demonstrates an inability to protect himself from the advances ofan opponent;(C)  biting; or(D)  direct, intentional, and forceful strikes to the eyes, groin area, adam's apple area of theneck, and temple area of the head.    58-66-503.(1)  Ultimate fighting matches are prohibited.(2)  Any person who publicizes, promotes, conducts, or engages in an ultimate fighting matchis:(a)  guilty of a class A misdemeanor as provided in Section 76-9-705; and(b)  subject to license revocation under this chapter.and tough man contests(3)  The rules shall:(a)  prohibit ultimate fighting matches; and(b)  require the revocation of the license of any licensee who publicizes, promotes, conducts,or engages in an ultimate fighting match.or if the defendant was engaged in an ultimate fightingmatch as defined in Section 76-9-705    76-9-705.(1)  For purposes of this section, "ultimate fighting match" means a live match in which:(a)  an admission fee is charged;(b)  match rules permit professional contestants to use a combination of boxing, kicking,wrestling, hitting, punching, or other combative, contact techniques; and(c)  match rules do not:(i)  incorporate a formalized system of combative techniques against which a contestant'sperformance is judged to determine the prevailing contestant;(ii)  divide a match into two or more equal and specified time periods for a match total of nomore than 50 minutes; or(iii)  prohibit contestants from:(A)  using anything that is not part of the human body, except for boxing gloves, tointentionally inflict serious bodily injury upon an opponent through direct contact or the expulsionof a projectile;(B)  striking a person who demonstrates an inability to protect himself from the advances ofan opponent;(C)  biting; or(D)  direct, intentional, and forceful strikes to the eyes, groin area, adam's apple area of theneck, and temple area of the head.(2)  Any person who publicizes, promotes, conducts, or engages in an ultimate fighting matchis guilty of a class A misdemeanor.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0043.ZIP 15,728 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 43 Enrolled








 
    PROHIBITION OF ULTIMATE FIGHTING




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: L. Steven Poulton


    Pete  Suazo




    AN ACT RELATING TO OCCUPATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSING;

    PROHIBITING ULTIMATE FIGHTING CONTESTS; AUTHORIZING THE DIVISION

    TO ADOPT RULES ON TOUGH MAN CONTESTS; DEFINING TERMS; AND

    MAKING PARTICIPATION IN AN ULTIMATE FIGHTING MATCH GROUNDS FOR

    LICENSE REVOCATION AND A CLASS A MISDEMEANOR.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         58-66-102, as enacted by Chapter 11, Laws of Utah 1995

         58-66-604, as enacted by Chapter 11, Laws of Utah 1995

         76-5-104, as last amended by Chapter 170, Laws of Utah 1989

    ENACTS:

         58-66-503, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         76-9-705, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  58-66-102 is amended to read:

         58-66-102.  Definitions.

        In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Bodily injury" means as defined in Section 76-1-601.

        [(1)] (2)  "Commission" means the Utah Boxing Commission established under Section

    58-66-201.

        [(2)] (3) (a)  "Contest" means a live boxing contest, match, performance, sparring match,

    or exhibition demonstrating the skill and ability of professional contestants when an admission fee

    is charged or that is telecast, televised, or broadcast to the public in any manner, including

    television, radio, transmission via a cable television system, microwave, closed circuit, satellite,


    fiber optic link, or any other method of distribution.

        (b)  "Contest" does not include a boxing contest, match, performance, sparring match, or

    exhibition staged outside the state that is telecast, televised, or broadcast as a "pay-per-view

    telecast," closed circuit or otherwise, that is not intended to be available for viewing without the

    payment of a fee for the privilege of viewing the telecast, collected for or based upon each event

    viewed.

        [(3)] (4)  "Exhibition" means an engagement in which the participants show or display their

    skills without necessarily striving to win.

        [(4)] (5)  "Judge" means an individual qualified by training or experience to:

        (a)  rate the performance of professional contestants;

        (b)  score a contest; and

        (c)  determine with other judges whether there is a winner of the contest or whether the

    professional contestants performed equally resulting in a draw.

        [(5)] (6)  "Manager" means an individual who represents a professional contestant for the

    purposes of obtaining matches, negotiating terms and conditions of the contract under which the

    professional contestant will engage in a contest, or arranging for a second for the professional

    contestant at a contest.

        [(6)] (7)  "Professional contestant" means an individual who participates in a contest for a

    cash purse in any amount or for a noncash purse with more than nominal value as defined by rule.

        [(7)] (8)  "Promoter" means a person who engages in producing or staging professional

    contests and promotions.

        [(8)] (9)  "Promotion" means a single contest or a combination of contests that occur during

    the same time at the same location and that is produced or staged by a promoter.

        [(9)] (10) (a)  "Purse" means any money, prize, remuneration, or any other valuable

    consideration a professional contestant receives or may receive for participation in a contest.

        (b)  "Purse" does not mean a trophy, medal, or similar object of nominal value as defined by

    rule that is received for participation in a contest.

        [(10)] (11)  "Referee" means an individual qualified by training or experience to act as the

- 2 -


    official attending a professional contest at the point of contact between professional contestants for

    the purpose of:

        (a)  enforcing the rules relating to the professional contest; 

        (b)  stopping the contest in the event the health, safety, and welfare of a professional

    contestant or any other person in attendance at the contest is in jeopardy; and

        (c)  to act as a judge if so designated by the commission.

        [(11)] (12)  "Second" means an individual who attends a professional contestant at the site

    of the contest before, during, and after the contest in accordance with contest rules.

        (13)  "Serious bodily injury" means as defined in Section 76-1-601.

        [(12)] (14)  "Total gross receipts" means the amount of the face value of all tickets sold to

    a particular contest plus any sums received as consideration for holding the contest at a particular

    location.

        (15)  "Tough man contest" means a contest in which tough man contestants compete.

        (16)  "Tough man contestant" means a person who:

        (a)  participates in a contest for a cash purse in any amount or for a noncash purse with more

    than nominal value as defined by rule; and

        (b)  is not licensed as a professional contestant in any state.

        (17)  "Ultimate fighting match" means a live match in which:

        (a)  an admission fee is charged;

        (b)  match rules permit professional contestants to use a combination of boxing, kicking,

    wrestling, hitting, punching, or other combative, contact techniques; and

        (c)  match rules do not:

        (i)  incorporate a formalized system of combative techniques against which a contestant's

    performance is judged to determine the prevailing contestant;

        (ii)  divide a match into two or more equal and specified time periods for a match total of no

    more than 50 minutes; or

        (iii)  prohibit contestants from:

        (A)  using anything that is not part of the human body, except for boxing gloves, to

- 3 -


    intentionally inflict serious bodily injury upon an opponent through direct contact or the expulsion

    of a projectile;

        (B)  striking a person who demonstrates an inability to protect himself from the advances of

    an opponent;

        (C)  biting; or

        (D)  direct, intentional, and forceful strikes to the eyes, groin area, adam's apple area of the

    neck, and temple area of the head.

        Section 2.  Section  58-66-503 is enacted to read:

         58-66-503.  Ultimate fighting prohibited.

        (1)  Ultimate fighting matches are prohibited.

        (2)  Any person who publicizes, promotes, conducts, or engages in an ultimate fighting match

    is:

        (a)  guilty of a class A misdemeanor as provided in Section 76-9-705; and

        (b)  subject to license revocation under this chapter.

        Section 3.  Section  58-66-604 is amended to read:

         58-66-604.  Rules.

        (1)  The division in collaboration with the commission shall adopt rules in accordance with

    the provisions of Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, for the conduct of

    contests and tough man contests in the state.

        (2)  The rules shall include authority for stopping contests, impounding purses with respect

    to contests when there is a question with respect to the contest, professional contestants, or any other

    licensee associated with the contest, and reasonable and necessary provisions to ensure that all

    obligations of a promoter with respect to any promotion or contest are paid in accordance with

    agreements made by the promoter.

        (3)  The rules shall:

        (a)  prohibit ultimate fighting matches; and

        (b)  require the revocation of the license of any licensee who publicizes, promotes, conducts,

    or engages in an ultimate fighting match.

- 4 -


        Section 4.  Section  76-5-104 is amended to read:

         76-5-104.  Consensual altercation no defense to homicide or assault if dangerous

     weapon used or participants are engaged in an ultimate fighting match.

        In any prosecution for criminal homicide under Part 2 of this chapter or assault, it is no

    defense to the prosecution that the defendant was a party to any duel, mutual combat, or other

    consensual altercation if during the course of the duel, combat, or altercation any dangerous weapon

    as defined in Section 76-1-601 was used or if the defendant was engaged in an ultimate fighting

    match as defined in Section 76-9-705.

        Section 5.  Section  76-9-705 is enacted to read:

         76-9-705.  Participation in an ultimate fighting match.

        (1)  For purposes of this section, "ultimate fighting match" means a live match in which:

        (a)  an admission fee is charged;

        (b)  match rules permit professional contestants to use a combination of boxing, kicking,

    wrestling, hitting, punching, or other combative, contact techniques; and

        (c)  match rules do not:

        (i)  incorporate a formalized system of combative techniques against which a contestant's

    performance is judged to determine the prevailing contestant;

        (ii)  divide a match into two or more equal and specified time periods for a match total of no

    more than 50 minutes; or

        (iii)  prohibit contestants from:

        (A)  using anything that is not part of the human body, except for boxing gloves, to

    intentionally inflict serious bodily injury upon an opponent through direct contact or the expulsion

    of a projectile;

        (B)  striking a person who demonstrates an inability to protect himself from the advances of

    an opponent;

        (C)  biting; or

        (D)  direct, intentional, and forceful strikes to the eyes, groin area, adam's apple area of the

    neck, and temple area of the head.

- 5 -


        (2)  Any person who publicizes, promotes, conducts, or engages in an ultimate fighting match

    is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

- 6 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







