Sponsors: []Modifications:     63D-1-101.This title is known as "Information Technology."    63D-1-102.This chapter is known as the "Information Technology Act."    63D-1-103.(1)  The Legislature finds that universal citizen access to information and services is a statepublic policy goal.  This access should be facilitated through a seamless electronic network withopen, not proprietary, standards that is:(a)  vertically integrated between the local, state, and federal government entities; and(b)  horizontally integrated between all state government entities.(2)  It is the policy goal of this state that technology should be used to enhance the qualityof life for all Utahns by providing world-class education and life-long learning opportunities,creating quality jobs and a favorable business climate, improving government, and fosteringself-reliance, while protecting community values.  These public policy goals can be furthered by:(a)  provision of information and services by government entities in an electronic format;(b)  coordination of the development, interconnection, and maintenance of governmentinformation technology systems and applications between government entities;(c)  initiating state policies and practices which encourage data exchange and systemsinterconnectivity among private enterprise, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;(d)  appropriate use of the state's collective bargaining power, rights-of-way, taxingauthority, and assets as incentives for the private sector to develop and provide informationtechnology services to citizens; and(e)  appropriate policies to protect security, privacy, and acceptable use of network servicesand information.    63D-1-104.title    63D-1-201.part    63D-1-202., one of which shall be the chief information officer,nineappoint a legislator to serve as a cochair    63D-1-203.Subsections (1)and (2)speaker of the House and the president of the Senatespeaker of the Houseand the president of the Senate(2) (a)  The chairs, with the approval of the commission, may remove a commission memberand appoint another to fill the vacancy if the commission member, other than a legislator:(i)  has more than two consecutive unexcused absences from commission meetings in a12-month period;(ii)  fails or refuses to fulfill the responsibilities and duties of a commission member; or(iii)  no longer represents the interest for which the member was originally appointed.(b)  If a member no longer serves in the Legislature, a vacancy is created.(c)in the same manner as the original appointment(3)    63D-1-204.(i)from:(A)  the Executive Department as provided in Subsections 63-38-2(7)(a)(i) and Section63D-3-301; and(B)  the Judicial and Legislative Departments; and(ii)(h)  submit to the Legislature before the annual general session its reports andrecommendations for information technology projects or legislation; and(i)(3)  The commission is authorized to prepare, publish, and distribute reports of its studies,recommendations, and statements.    63D-1-205.(b)(2) (a)(b)(3)(4) (a)(b)    63D-1-206.    63D-1-301.policies,,that support the agency's and thestate's strategic plans, including Utah Tomorrowmanagement, planning, and the use of information technology resources    63D-1-302.:(i)as follows(A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H); and(ii)  the members of the executive committee as provided in Section 63D-1-30363D-1-303    63D-1-303.of the Information Technology Policy andStrategy Committee63D-1-302as followswith the approval of the president of the Senate and the speaker of the HouseIf this bill and H.B. 12, Boards and Commissions Amendments, both pass, it is the intent ofthe Legislature that the amendments in Section 63D-1-203 in this bill supersede the amendments toSection 63C-2-103 in H.B. 12.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0094.ZIP 15,078 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 94 Enrolled








 
    INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: David H.  Steele


    AN ACT RELATING TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY; ESTABLISHING A PUBLIC

    POLICY STATEMENT; RENUMBERING AND AMENDING SECTIONS RELATING

    TO THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMMISSION AND THE CHIEF

    INFORMATION OFFICER; MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS; AND

    PROVIDING A COORDINATION CLAUSE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    ENACTS:

         63D-1-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63D-1-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63D-1-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    RENUMBERS AND AMENDS:

         63D-1-104, (Renumbered from 63A-6-301, as last amended by Chapter 189, Laws of Utah

    1996)

         63D-1-201, (Renumbered from 63C-2-101, as enacted by Chapter 241, Laws of Utah

    1994)

         63D-1-202, (Renumbered from 63C-2-102, as last amended by Chapter 210, Laws of Utah

    1995)

         63D-1-203, (Renumbered from 63C-2-103, as last amended by Chapter 243, Laws of Utah

    1996)

         63D-1-204, (Renumbered from 63C-2-104, as last amended by Chapter 210, Laws of Utah

    1995)

         63D-1-205, (Renumbered from 63C-2-105, as last amended by Chapter 243, Laws of Utah

    1996)

         63D-1-206, (Renumbered from 63C-2-106, as enacted by Chapter 241, Laws of Utah

    1994)


         63D-1-301, (Renumbered from 63A-6-302, as enacted by Chapter 189, Laws of Utah 1996)

         63D-1-302, (Renumbered from 63A-6-304, as enacted by Chapter 189, Laws of Utah 1996)

         63D-1-303, (Renumbered from 63A-6-303, as enacted by Chapter 189, Laws of Utah 1996)

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  63D-1-101 is enacted to read:

     TITLE 63D. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY


     CHAPTER 1. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT


     Part 1.  General Provisions


         63D-1-101.  Title.

        This title is known as "Information Technology."

        Section 2.  Section  63D-1-102 is enacted to read:

         63D-1-102.  Title.

        This chapter is known as the "Information Technology Act."

        Section 3.  Section  63D-1-103 is enacted to read:

         63D-1-103.  Policy statement.

        (1)  The Legislature finds that universal citizen access to information and services is a state

    public policy goal.  This access should be facilitated through a seamless electronic network with

    open, not proprietary, standards that is:

        (a)  vertically integrated between the local, state, and federal government entities; and

        (b)  horizontally integrated between all state government entities.

        (2)  It is the policy goal of this state that technology should be used to enhance the quality

    of life for all Utahns by providing world-class education and life-long learning opportunities,

    creating quality jobs and a favorable business climate, improving government, and fostering

    self-reliance, while protecting community values.  These public policy goals can be furthered by:

        (a)  provision of information and services by government entities in an electronic format;

        (b)  coordination of the development, interconnection, and maintenance of government

    information technology systems and applications between government entities;

        (c)  initiating state policies and practices which encourage data exchange and systems

- 2 -


    interconnectivity among private enterprise, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;

        (d)  appropriate use of the state's collective bargaining power, rights-of-way, taxing

    authority, and assets as incentives for the private sector to develop and provide information

    technology services to citizens; and

        (e)  appropriate policies to protect security, privacy, and acceptable use of network services

    and information.

        Section 4.  Section  63D-1-104, which is renumbered from Section 63A-6-301 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-6-301].      63D-1-104.  Definitions.

          As used in this [part] title:

        (1)  "Information systems" means a collection of people, procedures, and equipment

    designed, built, operated, and maintained to collect, record, process, store, retrieve, and display

    information.

        (2)  "Information technology" means all computerized and auxiliary automated information

    handling, including:

        (a)  systems design and analysis;

        (b)  conversion of data;

        (c)  computer programming;

        (d)  information storage and retrieval;

        (e)  voice, radio, video, and data communications;

        (f)  requisite systems controls;

        (g)  simulation; and

        (h)  all related interactions between people and machines.

        (3)  "State agency" means every agency or administrative subunit of state government except:

        (a)  the legislative and judicial branches;

        (b)  the State Board of Education;

        (c)  the Board of Regents; and

        (d)  institutions of higher education.

- 3 -


        (4)  "Telecommunications" means the transmission or reception of signs, signals, writing,

    images, sounds, messages, data, or other information of any nature by wire, radio, light waves, or

    other electromagnetic means.

        Section 5.  Section  63D-1-201, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-101 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

     Part 2.  Information Technology Commission


         [63C-2-101].      63D-1-201.  Title.

        This [chapter] part is known as the "Utah Information Technology Commission Act."

        Section 6.  Section  63D-1-202, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-102 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63C-2-102].      63D-1-202.  Creation -- Membership -- Appointment.

        (1)  There is created an independent commission to be known as the "Utah Information

    Technology Commission."

        (2)  The commission shall be composed of up to 21 members appointed as follows:

        (a)  three members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the speaker of the House,

    not more than two of whom shall be from the same political party;

        (b)  three members of the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate, not more than 

    two of whom shall be from the same political party;

        (c)  two members, one of which shall be the chief information officer, appointed by the

    governor in consultation with the president of the Senate and the speaker of the House;

        (d)  one member appointed by the Judicial Council;

        (e)  one member appointed by the State Board of Education;

        (f)  one member appointed by the State Board of Regents;

        (g)  one member appointed by the Public Service Commission; and

        (h)  up to nine members of the public selected by the [seven] nine members appointed in

    Subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d), and with the approval of the president of the Senate and the speaker

    of the House.

        (3)  The members selected in Subsection (2)(h) shall represent, in the judgment of the

- 4 -


    selecting members, the principal interests of:

        (a)  providers, developers, and consumers of information technology products and services;

        (b)  local government; and

        (c)  the general public.

        (4)  The speaker of the House and president of the Senate shall each [select one of the

    members chosen by him to be a cochair] appoint a legislator to serve as a cochair of the commission.

        Section 7.  Section  63D-1-203, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-103 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63C-2-103].      63D-1-203.  Terms of members -- Vacancies -- Term limitation.

        (1) (a)  Except as required by [Subsection] Subsections (1) (b) and (2), as terms of current

    commission members expire, the [governor] speaker of the House and the president of the Senate

    shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

        (b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the [governor] speaker of the House

    and the president of the Senate shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length

    of terms to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that approximately half

    of the commission is appointed every two years.

        (c)  Terms shall expire on June 30 every two years.

        (2) (a)  The chairs, with the approval of the commission, may remove a commission member

    and appoint another to fill the vacancy if the commission member, other than a legislator:

        (i)  has more than two consecutive unexcused absences from commission meetings in a

    12-month period;

        (ii)  fails or refuses to fulfill the responsibilities and duties of a commission member; or

        (iii)  no longer represents the interest for which the member was originally appointed.

        (b)  If a member no longer serves in the Legislature, a vacancy is created.

        [(2)] (c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be

    appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.

        [(3)  A member of the House or Senate who leaves office before the four-year term has

    expired shall be replaced by their appointing authority.]

- 5 -


        [(4)] (3)  A member may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

        Section 8.  Section  63D-1-204, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-104 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63C-2-104].      63D-1-204.  Purpose -- Duties -- Quorum.

        (1)  The commission shall:

        (a)  study Utah's present and future information technology needs;

        (b)  make recommendations regarding the coordination and governance of the information

    technology needs for the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Departments;

        (c)  solicit and consider recommendations made by the governor, Judiciary, Legislature, and

    the public regarding information technology;

        (d)  consider the scope of the Public Service Commission's authority to regulate information

    technology;

        (e)  consider issues of economic development with regard to information technology;

        (f) (i)  receive reports [from the Executive, Judicial, and Legislative Departments] concerning

    expenditures for information technology and appropriation requests[, and] from:

        (A)  the Executive Department as provided in Subsections 63-38-2(7)(a)(i) and Section

    63D-3-301; and

        (B)  the Judicial and Legislative Departments; and

        (ii)  make recommendations to Executive Appropriations and the appropriate appropriations

    subcommittees of the Legislature;

        (g)  review, analyze, and study any issue concerning or related to information technology or

    practice that is of interest to the commission; [and]

        (h)  submit to the Legislature before the annual general session its reports and

    recommendations for information technology projects or legislation; and

        [(h)] (i)  if needed, prepare legislation concerning information technology for submission to

    the Legislature in its annual general session.

        (2)  Eleven members shall be a quorum for the conduct of business.

        (3)  The commission is authorized to prepare, publish, and distribute reports of its studies,

- 6 -


    recommendations, and statements.

        Section 9.  Section  63D-1-205, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-105 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63C-2-105].      63D-1-205.  Compensation of members -- Reports to the

     Legislature -- Publication of reports.

        (1) (a) [(i)]  Members who are not government employees shall receive no compensation or

    benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the

    member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections

    63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        [(ii)] (b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.

        [(b) (i)] (2) (a)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive salary,

    per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive per diem and expenses

    incurred in the performance of their official duties from the commission at the rates established by

    the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        [(ii)] (b)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per diem

    and expenses for their service.

        [(c)] (3)  Legislators on the committee shall receive compensation and expenses as provided

    by law and legislative rule.

        [(d) (i)] (4) (a)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or expenses

    from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in

    the performance of their official duties from the committee at the rates established by the Division

    of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        [(ii)] (b)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their

    service.

        [(2)  The commission shall submit to the Legislature before the annual general session its

    reports and recommendations for information technology projects or legislation.]

        [(3)  The commission is authorized to prepare, publish, and distribute from time to time

    reports of its studies, recommendations, and statements.]

- 7 -


        Section 10.  Section  63D-1-206, which is renumbered from Section 63C-2-106 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63C-2-106].      63D-1-206.  Staffing.

        The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide staffing for the

    commission.  The commission chairs shall, in consultation with the director of the Office of

    Legislative Research and General Counsel select an executive director.

        Section 11.  Section  63D-1-301, which is renumbered from Section 63A-6-302 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

     Part 3.  Chief Information Officer


         [63A-6-302].      63D-1-301.  Chief information officer -- Duties.

        (1) (a)  The governor shall appoint a chief information officer who shall be located within

    the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget, unless otherwise determined by the governor.

        (b)  The chief information officer's authority as defined in this section applies to all state

    agencies.

        (2)  The chief information officer shall:

        (a)  develop specific information technology objectives, policies, procedures, and standards

    to guide the development of information systems within state government to achieve maximum

    economy and quality while preserving optimum user flexibility, including:

        (i)  policies, standards, and procedures for appropriate interchange of information, optimum

    service, and minimum costs;

        (ii)  policies for costing all information technology services performed by any state

    information technology cost recovery center so that every cost recovery center charges its users a

    rate for services that is both equitable and sufficient to recover all the costs of its operation, including

    the cost of capital equipment and facilities;

        (iii)  policies governing coordination, cooperation, joint efforts, working relationships, and

    cost accounting relative to the development and maintenance of information technology and

    information systems; and

        (iv)  policies to ensure the protection of individual privacy and guarantee the exclusive

- 8 -


    control to a user of its own data;

        (b)  coordinate the preparation of agency information technology plans within state

    government, encompassing both short-term and long-term needs that support the agency's and the

    state's strategic plans, including Utah Tomorrow;

        (c)  require each state agency to submit semiannually an agency information technology plan

    containing the information required by Subsection (4) before the legislative session in which the

    budget request will be heard and no later than the June 15 after the legislative session in which the

    budget request was authorized to the chief information officer;

        (d)  upon receipt of a state agency's information technology plan:

        (i)  provide a complete copy of that plan to the director of the Division of Information

    Technology Services;

        (ii)  review and approve or disapprove agency information technology plans to ensure that

    these plans are the most economically viable and are the best solution to the agency's needs and the

    state's needs;

        (iii)  approve or disapprove of and coordinate the acquisition of information technology

    equipment, telecommunications equipment, and related services for all agencies of state government;

        (e)  facilitate the implementation of agency plans;

        (f)  establish priorities in terms of both importance and time sequencing for the development

    and implementation of information systems;

        (g)  monitor information systems development to promote maximum use of existing state

    information resources;

        (h)  advise the governor on information technology policy and make recommendations to the

    governor regarding requests for appropriations for information technology equipment and personnel;

        (i)  maintain liaison with the legislative and judicial branches, the Board of Regents, the State

    Board of Education, local government, federal government, business and industry, and consumers

    to promote cooperation and make recommendations regarding information resources;

        (j)  conduct performance audits of state information technology [resources in accordance with

    generally accepted auditing standards promulgated by the Institute of Internal Auditors and

- 9 -


    according to the generally accepted auditing standards contained in the Comptroller of the United

    States' "Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions"]

    management, planning, and the use of information technology resources and distribute copies of the

    audit reports as provided in Subsection (4); and

        (k)  prepare an annual report to the governor and to the Legislature's Information Technology

    Commission that:

        (i)  summarizes the state's current and projected use of information technology; and

        (ii)  includes a description of major changes in state policy and a brief description of each

    state agency's plan.

        (3)  Each state agency information technology plan shall include information about planned

    information technology objectives and expenditures for the next year in the level of detail and format

    specified by the chief information officer.

        (4) (a)  Upon completion of an audit report produced under authority of Subsection (2)(j),

    the chief information officer shall:

        (i)  provide copies of all audit reports to:

        (A)  the agency audited;

        (B)  the governor;

        (C)  the Office of Legislative Fiscal Analyst; and

        (D)  the Information Technology Commission; and

        (ii)  present the performance audit findings to the Information Technology Policy and

    Strategy Committee at their next meeting.

        (b)  Each state agency shall provide the chief information officer with complete access to all

    information technology records, documents, and reports, including electronic, analog, or digital,

    when requested for the purpose of a performance audit.

        (5)  The rate for services established by an information technology cost recovery center, and

    reviewed by the chief information officer, may be lowered if the Legislature appropriates monies to

    the cost recovery center for the specific purpose of lowering rates.

        Section 12.  Section  63D-1-302, which is renumbered from Section 63A-6-304 is renumbered

- 10 -


    and amended to read:

         [63A-6-304].      63D-1-302.  Information Technology Policy and Strategy

     Committee -- Membership -- Chair -- Duties.

        (1) (a)  The chief information officer shall create an Information Technology Policy and

    Strategy Committee composed of:

        (i)  one representative [from each of the following that choose to participate] as follows:

        [(i)] (A)  each executive branch agency, appointed by the director of that agency;

        [(ii)] (B)  the legislative branch, appointed by the Information Technology Commission;

        [(iii)] (C)  the judicial branch, appointed by the judicial council;

        [(iv)] (D)  cities, appointed by the Utah League of Cities and Towns;

        [(v)] (E)  counties, appointed by the Utah Association of Counties;

        [(vi)] (F)  the federal government, appointed by the chief information officer;

        [(vii)] (G)  public education, appointed by the Board of Education; and

        [(viii)] (H)  higher education, appointed by the Board of Regents; and

        (ii)  the members of the executive committee as provided in Section 63D-1-303.

        (b)  The representatives of the executive branch shall be the only voting members on policies

    binding the executive branch.

        (c)  No action taken by this committee shall be binding upon any other branch of

    government, but shall be considered a recommendation for coordination purposes.

        (2)  The Information Technology Policy and Strategy Committee shall:

        (a)  be directed by the executive committee as provided in Section [63A-6-303] 63D-1-303;

        (b)  evaluate and approve or disapprove recommended information technology policies,

    procedures, and standards to govern the operation of information technology in the executive branch;

        (c)  act as a high-level forum for information technology issues;

        (d)  act as an advisory committee for the chief information officer, Division of Information

    Technology Services, and state agencies; and

        (e)  create, and receive recommendations from, multiagency work groups on specific

    information technology issues.

- 11 -


        (3)  The chief information officer shall:

        (a)  be the chair; and

        (b)  at the request of the Information Technology Commission, report on the approval or

    disapproval of operational policy recommendations relating to information technology made by the

    Information Technology Policy and Strategy Committee.

        (4)  Executive branch agencies shall comply with the policies, procedures, and standards

    established by the chief information officer and approved by the Information Technology Policy and

    Strategy Committee under this part.

        Section 13.  Section  63D-1-303, which is renumbered from Section 63A-6-303 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-6-303].      63D-1-303.  Executive committee -- Membership -- Chair -- Duties.

        (1)  There is created an executive committee of the Information Technology Policy and

    Strategy Committee to determine the information policies, procedures, and standards to be reviewed

    by the Information Technology Policy and Strategy Committee established in Section [63A-6-304]

    63D-1-302.

        (2)  The executive committee is composed of:

        (a)  the chief information officer;

        (b)  the deputy for policy of the governor's office;

        (c)  the director of the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget;

        (d)  the director of the Division of Information Technology Services;

        (e)  the executive director of the Department of Administrative Services;

        (f)  the chair of the Public Service Commission;

        (g)  the director of the Utah Education Network Steering Committee; and

        (h)  if the judicial branch or legislative branch choose to participate as follows:

        (i)  one representative from the judicial branch, appointed by the Judicial Council; and

        (ii)  one representative from the legislative branch, appointed by the Information Technology

    Commission with the approval of the president of the Senate and the speaker of the House.

        (3)  The representatives in Subsections (f) through (h) shall be nonvoting members of the

- 12 -


    committee.

        (4)  The chief information officer shall be the chair.

        Section 14.   Coordination clause.

        If this bill and H.B. 12, Boards and Commissions Amendments, both pass, it is the intent of

    the Legislature that the amendments in Section 63D-1-203 in this bill supersede the amendments to

    Section 63C-2-103 in H.B. 12.

- 13 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







