Sponsors: []Modifications: (9)  For all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2001, an employer that is required tofile a federal Form W-2 in an electronic format with the Federal Department of the Treasury InternalRevenue Service shall file each Form W-2 that is required to be filed with the commission in anelectronic format approved by the commission.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 9 SB0030.ZIP 5,425 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 30 Enrolled





            

    
 FILING EMPLOYEE TAX INFORMATION

            

    
 ELECTRONICALLY



            

    
2001 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    


 Sponsor: David H. Steele



            

    
 This act modifies the Individual Income Tax Act to require employers who file Form W-2
            

    
 with the Internal Revenue Service in an electronic format to also file Form W-2 in an
            

    
 electronic format with the State Tax Commission.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     59-10-406, as last amended by Chapter 287, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
59-10-406

 is amended to read:
            

    
     59-10-406.  Collection and payment of tax.  
            

    
    (1) (a)  Each employer shall, on or before the last day of April, July, October, and January,
            

    
pay  to the commission the amount required to be deducted and withheld from wages paid to any
            

    
employee during the preceding calendar quarter under this part.
            

    
    (b)  The commission may change the time or period for making reports and payments if:
            

    
    (i)  in its opinion, the tax is in jeopardy; or 
            

    
    (ii)  a different time or period will facilitate the collection and payment of the tax by the
            

    
employer.
            

    
    (2)  Each employer shall file a return, in a form the commission prescribes, with each
            

    
payment  of the amount deducted and withheld under this part showing:
            

    
    (a)  the total amount of wages paid to his employees;
            

    
    (b)  the amount of federal income tax deducted and withheld;
            

    
    (c)  the amount of tax under this part deducted and withheld; and
            

    
    (d)  any other information the commission may require.
            

    
    (3) (a)  Each employer shall file an annual return, in a form the commission prescribes,
            

    
summarizing:

            

    
    (i)  the total compensation paid;
            

    
    (ii)  the federal income tax deducted and withheld; and
            

    
    (iii)  the state tax deducted and withheld for each employee during the calendar year.
            

    
    (b)  This return shall be filed with the commission on or before February 28 of the year
            

    
following that for which the report is made.
            

    
    (4) (a)  Each employer shall also, in accordance with rules prescribed by the commission,
            

    
provide each employee from whom state income tax has been withheld with a statement of the
            

    
amounts of total compensation paid and the amounts deducted and withheld for that employee during
            

    
the preceding calendar year in accordance with this part.
            

    
    (b)  The statement shall be made available to each entitled employee on or before January
            

    
31 of the year following that for which the report is made.
            

    
    (5) (a)  The employer is liable to the commission for the payment of the tax required to be
            

    
deducted and withheld under this part.  The employee is not thereafter liable for the amount of any
            

    
such payment, nor is the employer liable to any person or to any employee for the amount of any
            

    
such payment.
            

    
    (b)  For the purpose of making penal provisions of this title applicable, any amount deducted
            

    
or required to be deducted and remitted to the commission under this part is considered the tax of
            

    
the employer and with respect to such amounts he is considered the taxpayer.
            

    
    (6)  Each employer who deducts and withholds any amount under this part shall hold the
            

    
amount in trust for the state of Utah for the payment of it to the commission in the manner and at the
            

    
time provided for in this part.  So long as any delinquency continues, the state of Utah shall have a
            

    
lien to secure the payment of any amounts withheld, and not remitted as provided under this section,
            

    
upon all of the assets of the employer and all property owned or used by the employer in the conduct
            

    
of his business, including stock-in-trade, business fixtures, and equipment.  This lien shall be prior
            

    
to any lien of any kind, including existing liens for taxes.
            

    
    (7)  As a condition precedent to doing business in Utah, the commission may require an
            

    
employer to post with it a corporate bond in an amount reasonably calculated to ensure the payment
            

    
to the state of taxes deducted and withheld from wages, but not to exceed $5,000.

- 2 -

            

    
    (8)  To the extent consistent with this section, the commission may use all the provisions of
            

    
this chapter relating to records, penalties, interest, deficiencies, redetermination of deficiencies,
            

    
overpayments, refunds, assessments, and venue to enforce this section.
            

    
    (9)  For all tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2001, an employer that is required to
            

    
file a federal Form W-2 in an electronic format with the Federal Department of the Treasury Internal
            

    
Revenue Service shall file each Form W-2 that is required to be filed with the commission in an
            

    
electronic format approved by the commission.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







