Sponsors: []Modifications:     13-37-101.(1)  As used in this chapter:    (a)  "Division" means the Division of Consumer Protection in the Department ofCommerce.(b) (i)  "Financial transaction card" means any card, code, or other means of access to aperson's account issued to a person that allows the person to obtain, purchase, or receive any ofthe following:(A)  goods;(B)  services;(C)  money; or(D)  anything else of value.(ii)  "Financial transaction card" includes:(A)  a credit card;(B)  a credit plate;(C)  a bank services card;(D)  a banking card;(E)  a check guarantee card;(F)  a debit card;(G)  a telephone credit card; and(H)  a device for access as defined in Section 

7-16a-102

.(c)  "Receipt" means any document related to the transaction of business provided to aperson that uses a financial transaction card.(2)  A person that accepts a financial transaction card for the transaction of business maynot, on a financial transaction card receipt:(a)  print more than the last five digits of the financial transaction card account number;or(b)  print the financial transaction card expiration date.(3) (a)  This section applies only to receipts that are electronically printed.(b)  This section does not apply to transactions in which the initial means of recording thefinancial transaction card number is by:(i)  handwriting; or(ii)  an imprint or copy of the financial transaction card.    13-37-102.(1)  A person may bring an action in any state court of competent jurisdiction against aperson that violates any of the requirements of this chapter.(2)  In an action under Subsection (1), a person may:(a)  recover the amount of any actual damages caused by the violation of this chapter;(b)  recover court costs and reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court; and(c)  seek to enjoin conduct in violation of this chapter.This act takes effect on January 1, 2004.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 9 SB0006.ZIP
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 6 Enrolled





            

    
 RETAILER REQUIREMENTS IN PRINTING

            

    
 FINANCIAL TRANSACTION CARD RECEIPT



            

    
2003 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    


 Sponsor:  Carlene M. Walker



            

    
 This act modifies the Commerce and Trade Code by enacting provisions prohibiting a
            

    
 person from printing more than the last five digits of a financial transaction card account
            

    
 number or the expiration date on a financial transaction card receipt.  The act provides a
            

    
 cause of action when a person violates these provisions.  This act takes effect on January
            

    
 1, 2004.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     13-37-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-37-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
13-37-101

 is enacted to read:
            

    
 CHAPTER 37.  FINANCIAL TRANSACTION CARD RECEIPTS

            

    
     13-37-101.  Definitions -- Financial transaction card receipt requirements.
            

    
    (1)  As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (a)  "Division" means the Division of Consumer Protection in the Department of
            

    
Commerce.
            

    
    (b) (i)  "Financial transaction card" means any card, code, or other means of access to a
            

    
person's account issued to a person that allows the person to obtain, purchase, or receive any of
            

    
the following:
            

    
    (A)  goods;
            

    
    (B)  services;
            

    
    (C)  money; or
            

    
    (D)  anything else of value.
            

    
    (ii)  "Financial transaction card" includes:

            

    
    (A)  a credit card;
            

    
    (B)  a credit plate;
            

    
    (C)  a bank services card;
            

    
    (D)  a banking card;
            

    
    (E)  a check guarantee card;
            

    
    (F)  a debit card;
            

    
    (G)  a telephone credit card; and
            

    
    (H)  a device for access as defined in Section 

7-16a-102

.
            

    
    (c)  "Receipt" means any document related to the transaction of business provided to a
            

    
person that uses a financial transaction card.
            

    
    (2)  A person that accepts a financial transaction card for the transaction of business may
            

    
not, on a financial transaction card receipt:
            

    
    (a)  print more than the last five digits of the financial transaction card account number;
            

    
or
            

    
    (b)  print the financial transaction card expiration date.
            

    
    (3) (a)  This section applies only to receipts that are electronically printed.
            

    
    (b)  This section does not apply to transactions in which the initial means of recording the
            

    
financial transaction card number is by:
            

    
    (i)  handwriting; or
            

    
    (ii)  an imprint or copy of the financial transaction card.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
13-37-102

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-37-102.  Private action.
            

    
    (1)  A person may bring an action in any state court of competent jurisdiction against a
            

    
person that violates any of the requirements of this chapter.
            

    
    (2)  In an action under Subsection (1), a person may:
            

    
    (a)  recover the amount of any actual damages caused by the violation of this chapter;
            

    
    (b)  recover court costs and reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court; and
            

    
    (c)  seek to enjoin conduct in violation of this chapter.

- 2 -

            

    
    Section 3.   Effective date.
            

    
    This act takes effect on January 1, 2004.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







