Sponsors: []Modifications: and(v)  governing capacity development in compliance with Section 1420 of the federal SafeDrinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq.;:(i)  to the extent required for compliance with Section 1419 of the federal Safe DrinkingWater Act, 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq.; and(ii)or DrinkingWater Boardor 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe Drinking Water Act,threefrom the Drinking Water Loan Program subaccount(b)  The State Revolving Fund for Drinking Water Projects subaccount, which consists of:(i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;(ii)  money received from the Utah Drinking Water Loan Program subaccount and appliedto meet match requirements for federal funds under 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe DrinkingWater Act;(iii)  money received from the repayment of loans made by the Drinking Water Board underthis section from the State Revolving Fund for Drinking Water Projects subaccount;(iv)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law;(v)  money received under and subject to the restrictions of 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federalSafe Drinking Water Act, and which is eligible for use in state revolving loan funds established tomeet the requirements of the act; and(vi)  all investment income derived from money in the State Revolving Fund for DrinkingWater Projects subaccount.(c)(iv)  the Hardship Grant Assessment charged to State Revolving Fund loan recipients; and(v)and the Drinking Water SecuritySubaccountand 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe Drinking Water Act(7)  Funds received under Section 1452 of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A.300f et seq., may be used for providing financial assistance to community water systems andnonprofit noncommunity water systems as defined and within the limits of that act.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0075.ZIP 12,885 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 75 Enrolled








 
    SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  John P. Holmgren


    Lorin V. Jones

    Ed P. Mayne

    Howard A. Stephenson
Robert F. Montgomery
Leonard M. Blackham
Michael G. Waddoups
Howard C. Nielson


    AN ACT RELATING TO HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; AMENDING DRINKING

    WATER PROGRAM PROVISIONS TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL SAFE DRINKING

    WATER ACT REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE, INCLUDING

    PROVIDING AGENCY RULEMAKING AUTHORITY FOR CAPACITY

    DEVELOPMENT AND CREATION OF A DRINKING WATER PROJECT

    REVOLVING LOAN FUND.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         19-4-104, as last amended by Chapter 129, Laws of Utah 1991

         73-10c-2, as last amended by Chapter 239, Laws of Utah 1993

         73-10c-5, as last amended by Chapter 239, Laws of Utah 1993

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  19-4-104 is amended to read:

         19-4-104.  Powers of board.

        (1)  The board may:

        (a)  make rules in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking

    Act:

        (i)  establishing standards that prescribe the maximum contaminant levels in any public

    water system and provide for monitoring, record-keeping, and reporting of water quality related

    matters;

        (ii)  governing design, construction, operation, and maintenance of public water systems;

        (iii)  granting variances and exemptions to the requirements established under this chapter


    that are not less stringent than those allowed under federal law; [and]

        (iv)  protecting watersheds and water sources used for public water systems; and

        (v)  governing capacity development in compliance with Section 1420 of the federal Safe

    Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq.;

        (b)  require the submission to the executive secretary of plans and specifications for

    construction of, substantial addition to, or alteration of public water systems for review and approval

    by the board before that action begins and require any modifications or impose any conditions that

    may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;

        (c)  advise, consult, cooperate with, provide technical assistance to, and enter into

    agreements, contracts, or cooperative arrangements with state, federal, or interstate agencies,

    municipalities, local health departments, educational institutions, or others necessary to carry out the

    purposes of this chapter and to support the laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of local

    jurisdictions;

        (d)  request and accept financial assistance from other public agencies, private entities, and

    the federal government to carry out the purposes of this chapter;

        (e)  develop and implement an emergency plan to protect the public when declining drinking

    water quality or quantity creates a serious health risk and issue emergency orders if a health risk is

    imminent;

        (f)  authorize employees or agents of the department, after reasonable notice and presentation

    of credentials, to enter any part of a public water system at reasonable times to inspect the facilities

    and water quality records required by board rules, conduct sanitary surveys, take samples, and

    investigate the standard of operation and service delivered by public water systems;

        (g)  meet the requirements of federal law related or pertaining to drinking water; and

        (h)  exercise all other incidental powers necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.

        (2) (a)  The board may adopt and enforce standards and establish fees for certification of

    operators of any public water system.

        (b)  The board may not require certification of operators for a water system serving a

    population of 800 or less except:

- 2 -


        (i)  to the extent required for compliance with Section 1419 of the federal Safe Drinking

    Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq.; and

        (ii)  for a system that is required to treat its drinking water.

        (c)  The certification program shall be funded from certification and renewal fees.

        (3)  Routine extensions or repairs of existing public water systems that comply with the rules

    and do not alter the system's ability to provide an adequate supply of water are exempt from the

    provisions of Subsection (1)(b).

        (4) (a)  The board may adopt and enforce standards and establish fees for certification of

    persons engaged in administering cross connection control programs or backflow prevention

    assembly training, repair, and maintenance testing.

        (b)  The certification program shall be funded from certification and renewal fees.

        Section 2.  Section  73-10c-2 is amended to read:

         73-10c-2.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Board" means the Board of Water Resources of the Department of Natural Resources.

        (2)  "Council" means the Water Development Coordinating Council created pursuant to

    Section 63-34-3, and this chapter.

        (3)  "Credit enhancement agreement" means any agreement entered into under this chapter

    between the Drinking Water Board or Water Quality Board, on behalf of the state, and a political

    subdivision, for the purpose of providing methods and assistance to political subdivisions to improve

    the security for and marketability of drinking water project obligations and wastewater project

    obligations.

        (4)  "Drinking Water Board" means the Drinking Water Board created in Title 19, Chapter

    4, Safe Drinking Water Act.

        (5)  "Drinking water or wastewater project obligation" means, as appropriate, any bond, note,

    or other obligation of a political subdivision issued to finance all or part of the cost of acquiring,

    constructing, expanding, upgrading, or improving a drinking water project or wastewater project.

        (6)  "Drinking water project" means any work or facility necessary or desirable to provide

- 3 -


    water for human consumption and other domestic uses, which has at least 15 service connections or

    serves an average of 25 individuals daily for at least 60 days of the year and includes collection,

    treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under the control of the operator and used primarily

    with the system and collection pretreatment or storage facilities used primarily in connection with

    the system but not under its control.

        (7)  "Financial assistance programs" means the various programs administered by the state

    whereby loans, grants, and other forms of financial assistance are made available to political

    subdivisions of this state to finance the costs of water and wastewater projects.

        (8)  "Hardship Grant Assessment" means the charge the Water Quality Board or Drinking

    Water Board assesses to recipients of federal State Revolving Fund loans under 33 U.S.C.A.  1251

    et seq., federal Clean Water Act, or 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe Drinking Water Act, in

    lieu of or in addition to interest charged on these loans.

        (9)  "Political subdivision" means any county, city, town, improvement district, water

    conservancy district, special service district, drainage district, metropolitan water district, irrigation

    district, separate legal or administrative entity created under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, or any

    other entity constituting a political subdivision under the laws of this state.

        (10)  "Security account" means the Water Development Security Account within the General

    Fund created by this chapter.

        (11)  "Wastewater project" means any sewer, sewage system, sewage treatment facility,

    lagoon, sewage collection facility and system and related pipelines and all similar systems, and

    works and facilities necessary or desirable to collect, hold, cleanse, or purify any sewage or other

    polluted waters of this state.

        (12)  "Waters of this state" means any stream, lake, pond, marsh, watercourse, waterway,

    well, spring, irrigation system, drainage system, or other body or accumulation of water whether

    surface, underground, natural, artificial, public, private, or other water resource of the state which

    is contained within or flows in or through the state.

        (13)  "Water Quality Board" means the Water Quality Board created in Title 19, Chapter 5,

    Water Quality Act.

- 4 -


        Section 3.  Section  73-10c-5 is amended to read:

         73-10c-5.  Water Development Security Account created -- Water Quality Security and

     Drinking Water Security Subaccounts created -- Use -- Revolving loan funds -- Hardship

     grants.

        (1)  There is established a restricted account within the General Fund known as the Water

    Development Security Account which includes the Water Quality Security Subaccount and the

    Drinking Water Security Subaccount.

        (2)  The Water Quality Security Subaccount consists of three subaccounts:

        (a)  the Utah Wastewater Loan Program subaccount, which consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received from the principal repayment of loans made by the Water Quality Board

    under Sections 73-10b-5, 73-10c-4, 73-10c-6, 73-10g-4, and 73-10h-4 from the Utah Wastewater

    Loan Program subaccount;

        (iii)  except for payments, if any, necessary to comply with Section 148(f), Internal Revenue

    Code of 1986, income earned after June 30, 1984, on proceeds of bonds authorized by Sections

    73-10b-5, 73-10g-4, and 73-10h-4 from the Utah Wastewater Loan subaccount; and

        (iv)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law.

        (b)  The Utah State Revolving Fund for Wastewater Projects subaccount, which consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received from the Utah Wastewater Loan Program subaccount applied to meet

    match requirements for federal funds under 33 U.S.C.A 1251 et seq., federal Clean Water Act;

        (iii)  money received from the repayment of loans made by the Water Quality Board under

    this section from the Utah State Revolving Fund for Wastewater Projects subaccount;

        (iv)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law;

        (v)  money received under and subject to the restrictions of 33 U.S.C.A. 1251 et seq., federal

    Clean Water Act, and which is eligible for use in state revolving loan funds established to meet the

    requirements of the act; and

        (vi)  all investment income derived from money in the Utah State Revolving Fund for

- 5 -


    Wastewater Projects subaccount.

        (c)  The Hardship Grant Program for Wastewater Projects subaccount, which consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received as interest payment on loans made by the Water Quality Board under

    Sections 73-10b-5, 73-10c-4, 73-10c-6, 73-10g-4, and 73-10h-4, from the Utah Wastewater Loan

    Program subaccount;

        (iii)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law;

        (iv)  the Hardship Grant Assessment charged to State Revolving Fund loan recipients; and

        (v)  all investment income derived from money in the Utah Wastewater Loan Program

    subaccount or the Hardship Grant Program for Wastewater Projects subaccount.

        (3)  The Drinking Water Security Subaccount consists of [two] three subaccounts:

        (a)  the Drinking Water Loan Program subaccount, which consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received from the principal repayment of loans made by the Drinking Water

    Board under Sections 73-10b-6, 73-10c-4, 73-10c-6, 73-10g-5, and 73-10h-5, from the Drinking

    Water Loan Program subaccount;

        (iii)  except for payments, if any, necessary to comply with Section 148(f), Internal Revenue

    Code of 1986, income earned after June 30, 1984, on proceeds of bonds authorized by Sections

    73-10b-6, 73-10g-5, and 73-10h-5 from the Drinking Water Loan Program subaccount; and

        (iv)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law.

        (b)  The State Revolving Fund for Drinking Water Projects subaccount, which consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received from the Utah Drinking Water Loan Program subaccount and applied

    to meet match requirements for federal funds under 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe Drinking

    Water Act;

        (iii)  money received from the repayment of loans made by the Drinking Water Board under

    this section from the State Revolving Fund for Drinking Water Projects subaccount;

        (iv)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law;

- 6 -


        (v)  money received under and subject to the restrictions of 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal

    Safe Drinking Water Act, and which is eligible for use in state revolving loan funds established to

    meet the requirements of the act; and

        (vi)  all investment income derived from money in the State Revolving Fund for Drinking

    Water Projects subaccount.

        [(b)] (c)  the Hardship Grant Program for Drinking Water Projects subaccount, which

    consists of:

        (i)  money appropriated to the subaccount by the Legislature;

        (ii)  money received from the interest repayment of loans made by the Drinking Water Board

    under Sections 73-10b-6, 73-10c-5, 73-10c-6, 73-10g-5, and 73-10h-5, from the Drinking Water

    Loan Program subaccount;

        (iii)  money deposited in the subaccount under any other law; [and]

        (iv)  the Hardship Grant Assessment charged to State Revolving Fund loan recipients; and

        [(iv)] (v)  all investment income derived from money in the Drinking Water Loan Program

    subaccount or the Hardship Grant Program for Drinking Water Projects subaccount.

        (4)  State monies in the Water Quality Security Subaccount and the Drinking Water Security

    Subaccount may be applied to meet match requirements for federal funds under 33 U.S.C.A. 1251

    et seq., federal Clean Water Act and 42 U.S.C.A. 300f et seq., federal Safe Drinking Water Act.

        (5)  If the money in the security account is insufficient for the purposes for which the security

    account is established, the council shall ask the governor to request the Legislature to appropriate

    additional money to the account.

        (6) (a)  The Drinking Water Board and Water Quality Board may use the money in the

    appropriate security account subaccount only to the extent of the money available in the account, for

    the support of drinking water projects and wastewater projects in accordance with the terms of credit

    enhancement agreements, grant agreements, and loan agreements.

        (b)  Repayments to the security account from loans made by the  acting board, monies

    allocated by the Legislature, and interest accrued on these monies shall remain available for use by

    that board for further project funding.

- 7 -


        (7)  Funds received under Section 1452 of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.A.

    300f et seq., may be used for providing financial assistance to community water systems and

    nonprofit noncommunity water systems as defined and within the limits of that act.

- 8 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







