Sponsors: []Modifications: (f)  "Gas corporation" has the same meaning as defined in Section 

54-2-1

.(g)(h)  "Interstate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gastransportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under theNatural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.(i)  "Intrastate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gastransportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissionunder the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.(j)(k)(l)(m)(n)(o)(p)(q)(r)(s); or(D)  a bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a first class county for thepurpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting separate parcels, an unmanned facility appurtenantto a pipeline owned or operated by a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company, or intrastatepipeline company.(s)(t)(2)Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0044.ZIP 10,289 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 44 Enrolled





            

    
SUBDIVISION AND LAND USE AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Peter C. Knudson

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO COUNTIES; DEFINING TERMS; MODIFYING THE DEFINITION
            

    
OF SUBDIVISION TO EXCLUDE CERTAIN GAS COMPANY FACILITIES; AND MAKING
            

    
TECHNICAL CHANGES.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     17-27-103, as last amended by Chapter 89, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
17-27-103

 is amended to read:
            

    
     17-27-103.  Definitions -- Notice.
            

    
    (1)  As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (a)  "Billboard" means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or
            

    
residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product, or
            

    
service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.
            

    
    (b)  "Chief executive officer" means the county executive, or if the county has adopted an
            

    
alternative form of government, the official who exercises the executive powers.
            

    
    (c)  "Conditional use" means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
            

    
potential impact on the county, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be
            

    
compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate
            

    
or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
            

    
    (d)  "County" means the unincorporated area of the county.
            

    
    (e)  "Elderly person" means a person who is 60 years old or older, who desires or needs to
            

    
live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of living independently.
            

    
    (f)  "Gas corporation" has the same meaning as defined in Section 

54-2-1

.
            

    
    [(f)] (g) (i)  "General plan" means a document that a county adopts that sets forth general
            

    
guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the county, as set forth in Sections

            

    

17-27-301

 and 

17-27-302

.
            

    
    (ii)  "General plan" includes what is also commonly referred to as a "master plan."
            

    
    (h)  "Interstate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gas
            

    
transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under the
            

    
Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.
            

    
    (i)  "Intrastate pipeline company" means a person or entity engaged in natural gas
            

    
transportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
            

    
under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 717 et seq.
            

    
    [(g)] (j)  "Legislative body" means the county legislative body, or for a county that has
            

    
adopted an alternative form of government, the body exercising legislative powers.
            

    
    [(h)] (k)  "Lot line adjustment" means the relocation of the property boundary line between
            

    
two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.
            

    
    [(i)] (l)  "Municipality" means a city or town.
            

    
    [(j)] (m)  "Nonconforming structure" means a structure that:
            

    
    (i)  legally existed before its current zoning designation; and
            

    
    (ii)  because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the zoning regulation's
            

    
setback, height restrictions, or other regulations that govern the structure.
            

    
    [(k)] (n)  "Nonconforming use" means a use of land that:
            

    
    (i)  legally existed before its current zoning designation;
            

    
    (ii)  has been maintained continuously since the time the zoning regulation governing the 
            
    
land
            

    
changed; and
            

    
    (iii)  because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the zoning regulations
            

    
that now govern the land.
            

    
    [(l)] (o)  "Official map" means a map of proposed streets that has the legal effect of
            

    
prohibiting development of the property until the county develops the proposed street.
            

    
    [(m)] (p) (i)  "Residential facility for elderly persons" means a single-family or
            

    
multiple-family dwelling unit that meets the requirements of Part 5 and any ordinance adopted under
            

    
authority of that part.

- 2 -

            

    
    (ii)  "Residential facility for elderly persons" does not include a health care facility as defined
            

    
by Section 

26-21-2

.
            

    
    [(n)] (q)  "Special district" means all entities established under the authority of Title 17A,
            

    
Special Districts, and any other governmental or quasi-governmental entity that is not a county,
            

    
municipality, school district, or unit of the state.
            

    
    [(o)] (r)  "Street" means public rights-of-way, including highways, avenues, boulevards,
            

    
parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges, public easements, and
            

    
other ways.
            

    
    [(p)] (s) (i)  "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
            

    
divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose,
            

    
whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or
            

    
upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
            

    
    (ii)  "Subdivision" includes the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
            

    
bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument.
            

    
    (iii)  "Subdivision" does not include:
            

    
    (A)  a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes;
            

    
    (B)  a recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting their mutual
            

    
boundary if:
            

    
    (I)  no new lot is created; and
            

    
    (II)  the adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable zoning ordinances; [or]
            

    
    (C)  a recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the legal description of
            

    
more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all such parcels
            

    
of property[.]; or
            

    
    (D)  a bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a first class county for the
            

    
purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting separate parcels, an unmanned facility appurtenant
            

    
to a pipeline owned or operated by a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company, or intrastate
            

    
pipeline company.
            

    
    (iv)  The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that has not

- 3 -

            

    
been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under this Subsection (1)[(p)](s) as to the
            

    
unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the unsubdivided parcel to the county's subdivision
            

    
ordinance.
            

    
    [(q)] (t)  "Unincorporated" means the area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities
            

    
and towns.
            

    
    (2) (a)  A county meets the requirements of reasonable notice required by this chapter if it:
            

    
    (i)  posts notice of the hearing or meeting in at least three public places within the jurisdiction
            

    
and publishes notice of the hearing or meeting in a newspaper of general circulation in the
            

    
jurisdiction, if one is available; or
            

    
    (ii)  gives actual notice of the hearing or meeting.
            

    
    (b)  A county legislative body may enact an ordinance establishing stricter notice
            

    
requirements than those required by this Subsection (2).
            

    
    (c) (i)  Proof that one of the two forms of notice authorized by this subsection was given is
            

    
prima facie evidence that notice was properly given.
            

    
    (ii)  If notice given under authority of this section is not challenged as provided in Section
            

    

17-27-1001

 within 30 days from the date of the meeting for which the notice was given, the notice
            

    
is considered adequate and proper.

- 4 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







