Sponsors: []Modifications:     13-32-101.This chapter is known as the "Swap Meets and Flea Markets Act."    13-32-102.(1)  "Manufacturer's or distributor's representative" means a person who has available forpublic inspection written proof of authorization from the manufacturer or distributor of a productto offer that product for public retail sale.(2)  "New and unused property" means tangible personal property that:(a)  was acquired by the vendor directly from the producer, manufacturer, wholesaler, orretailer of that property in the ordinary course of business;(b)  has never been used since its production or manufacturing; and(c)  if the property was packaged when originally produced or manufactured, is in its originaland unopened package or container.(3) (a)  "Swap meet" or "flea market" means an event at which personal property is offeredfor sale or exchange:(i)  by two or more persons and a fee is charged to vendors for the privilege of offering ordisplaying such personal property or to prospective buyers for admission to the area where suchpersonal property is offered or displayed for sale; or(ii)  if the event is held more than six times in any 12-month period, regardless of the numberof persons offering or displaying personal property or the absence of fees.(b)  The terms "swap meet" and "flea market" do not include any events:(i)  that are organized for the exclusive benefit of any community chest, fund, foundation,association, or corporation organized and operated exclusively for religious, educational, orcharitable purposes; or(ii)  at which all of the personal property offered for sale or displayed is new and unusedproperty, and all persons selling, exchanging, offering, or displaying the personal property aremanufacturer's or distributor's representatives.(4)  "Vendor" means a person who offers for sale or exchange six or more like items of newand unused property at a swap meet or flea market in this state.    13-32-103.A vendor who is not a manufacturer's or distributor's representative shall not sell or offer forsale or exchange at a swap meet or flea market any:(1)  food product which is manufactured and packaged specifically for consumption by achild under two years of age;(2)  nonprescription or over-the-counter drug or medication other than herbal products,dietary supplements, botanical extracts, or vitamins; or(3)  cosmetic or personal care product which has an expiration date.    13-32-104.(1)  Every vendor shall maintain receipts or a permanent record book for the acquisition ofnew and unused property which must contain:(a)  the date of the transaction on which the property was acquired;(b)  the name and address of the person from whom the property was acquired;(c)  an identification and description of the property acquired;(d)  the price paid for such property; and(e)  the signatures of the person selling the property and the vendor.(2)  The receipt or record for each transaction required by Subsection (1) shall be maintainedby the vendor for a period of not less than one year following the date of the transaction.    13-32-105.(1)  It is a violation of this chapter for any vendor, required to maintain receipts or recordsunder Section 

13-32-104

, to knowingly:(a)  falsify, obliterate, or destroy the receipts or records;(b)  refuse or fail to make such receipts available for inspection, upon the request of a lawenforcement officer, within a reasonable period of time under the circumstances surrounding therequest; or(c)  present credentials pursuant to the requirements of this chapter which are false,fraudulent, forged, or fraudulently obtained.(2)  Nothing contained within this section shall be construed to require a vendor to possessthe receipts or records required by Section 

13-32-104

 on or about the vendor's person withoutreasonable notice.    13-32-106.A person who violates this chapter is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.    13-32-107.The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:(1)  the sale of a motor vehicle or trailer that is required to be registered or is subject to thecertificate of title laws of this state;(2)  the sale of agricultural products, forestry products, livestock, or food products other thanthose which are manufactured and packaged specifically for consumption by a child under two yearsof age;(3)  business conducted at any industry or association trade show;(4)  the sale of arts or crafts by the person who produced such arts and crafts; and(5)  anyone who displays only samples, catalogs, or brochures and sells property for futuredelivery.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0035.ZIP 8,494 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 35 Enrolled





            

    
SWAP MEETS AND FLEA MARKETS ACT



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Leonard M. Blackham

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO COMMERCE AND TRADE; PROHIBITING CERTAIN SALES AT
            

    
SWAP MEETS; REQUIRING THE RETENTION OF RECEIPTS AND RECORDS BY SWAP
            

    
MEET VENDORS; PROVIDING PENALTIES; AND SETTING FORTH EXEMPTIONS.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     13-32-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-104, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-105, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-106, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     13-32-107, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
13-32-101

 is enacted to read:
            

    
 CHAPTER 32.  SWAP MEETS AND FLEA MARKETS ACT

            

    
     13-32-101.  Title.
            

    
    This chapter is known as the "Swap Meets and Flea Markets Act."
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
13-32-102

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-102.  Definitions.
            

    
    (1)  "Manufacturer's or distributor's representative" means a person who has available for
            

    
public inspection written proof of authorization from the manufacturer or distributor of a product
            

    
to offer that product for public retail sale.
            

    
    (2)  "New and unused property" means tangible personal property that:
            

    
    (a)  was acquired by the vendor directly from the producer, manufacturer, wholesaler, or
            

    
retailer of that property in the ordinary course of business;

            

    
    (b)  has never been used since its production or manufacturing; and
            

    
    (c)  if the property was packaged when originally produced or manufactured, is in its original
            

    
and unopened package or container.
            

    
    (3) (a)  "Swap meet" or "flea market" means an event at which personal property is offered
            

    
for sale or exchange:
            

    
    (i)  by two or more persons and a fee is charged to vendors for the privilege of offering or
            

    
displaying such personal property or to prospective buyers for admission to the area where such
            

    
personal property is offered or displayed for sale; or
            

    
    (ii)  if the event is held more than six times in any 12-month period, regardless of the number
            

    
of persons offering or displaying personal property or the absence of fees.
            

    
    (b)  The terms "swap meet" and "flea market" do not include any events:
            

    
    (i)  that are organized for the exclusive benefit of any community chest, fund, foundation,
            

    
association, or corporation organized and operated exclusively for religious, educational, or
            

    
charitable purposes; or
            

    
    (ii)  at which all of the personal property offered for sale or displayed is new and unused
            

    
property, and all persons selling, exchanging, offering, or displaying the personal property are
            

    
manufacturer's or distributor's representatives.
            

    
    (4)  "Vendor" means a person who offers for sale or exchange six or more like items of new
            

    
and unused property at a swap meet or flea market in this state.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
13-32-103

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-103.  Prohibited sales.
            

    
    A vendor who is not a manufacturer's or distributor's representative shall not sell or offer for
            

    
sale or exchange at a swap meet or flea market any:
            

    
    (1)  food product which is manufactured and packaged specifically for consumption by a
            

    
child under two years of age;
            

    
    (2)  nonprescription or over-the-counter drug or medication other than herbal products,
            

    
dietary supplements, botanical extracts, or vitamins; or
            

    
    (3)  cosmetic or personal care product which has an expiration date.

- 2 -

            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
13-32-104

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-104.  Receipts and transaction records -- Retention of receipts and transaction
            

    
 records.
            

    
    (1)  Every vendor shall maintain receipts or a permanent record book for the acquisition of
            

    
new and unused property which must contain:
            

    
    (a)  the date of the transaction on which the property was acquired;
            

    
    (b)  the name and address of the person from whom the property was acquired;
            

    
    (c)  an identification and description of the property acquired;
            

    
    (d)  the price paid for such property; and
            

    
    (e)  the signatures of the person selling the property and the vendor.
            

    
    (2)  The receipt or record for each transaction required by Subsection (1) shall be maintained
            

    
by the vendor for a period of not less than one year following the date of the transaction.
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
13-32-105

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-105.  Violations.
            

    
    (1)  It is a violation of this chapter for any vendor, required to maintain receipts or records
            

    
under Section 

13-32-104

, to knowingly:
            

    
    (a)  falsify, obliterate, or destroy the receipts or records;
            

    
    (b)  refuse or fail to make such receipts available for inspection, upon the request of a law
            

    
enforcement officer, within a reasonable period of time under the circumstances surrounding the
            

    
request; or
            

    
    (c)  present credentials pursuant to the requirements of this chapter which are false,
            

    
fraudulent, forged, or fraudulently obtained.
            

    
    (2)  Nothing contained within this section shall be construed to require a vendor to possess
            

    
the receipts or records required by Section 

13-32-104

 on or about the vendor's person without
            

    
reasonable notice.
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
13-32-106

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-106.  Penalties.
            

    
    A person who violates this chapter is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.

- 3 -

            

    
    Section 7.  
Section  
13-32-107

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     13-32-107.  Exemptions.
            

    
    The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
            

    
    (1)  the sale of a motor vehicle or trailer that is required to be registered or is subject to the
            

    
certificate of title laws of this state;
            

    
    (2)  the sale of agricultural products, forestry products, livestock, or food products other than
            

    
those which are manufactured and packaged specifically for consumption by a child under two years
            

    
of age;
            

    
    (3)  business conducted at any industry or association trade show;
            

    
    (4)  the sale of arts or crafts by the person who produced such arts and crafts; and
            

    
    (5)  anyone who displays only samples, catalogs, or brochures and sells property for future
            

    
delivery.

- 4 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







