Sponsors: []Modifications: (2) (a)  "Creditable coverage" has the same meaning as provided in the Health InsurancePortability and Accountability Act, Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat.1956, Sec. 2701(c)(1) and 45C.F.R. Sec. 146.11(a)(1);(b)  "Creditable coverage" does not include a period of time in which there is a significantbreak in coverage as described in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub.L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1956, Sec. 2701(c)(2).(3)  "Enrollee" means an individual who has met the eligibility requirements of the pooland is covered by a pool policy under this chapter.(4)(5)(6)(7)ormean:(i);(ii);(iii)(8)(9)an individual(10)  "HIPAA" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub. L.No. 104-191, 110 Stat.1962.(11)  "HIPAA eligible" means an individual who is eligible under the provisions of theHealth Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1979, Sec. 2741(b).(12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17)(18)a health(19)  "Preexisting condition" means a condition, regardless of the cause of the condition,for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received within thesix-month period immediately prior to the enrollment date.(20)  "Resident" or "residency" means an individual who is domiciled in this state asdefined in Section 

23-13-2

.(21)Six(1)(a)(i)(ii)(b)(c)(d)(e)an executive director and(f)(g)(h)Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Servicesenrollee(i)(j)(k)enrollee(l)(m)(n); and(o)  adopt, trademark, and copyright a trade name for the pool for use in marketing andpublicizing the pool and its products.(2) (a)  The board shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Legislature which shallinclude:(i)  the net premiums anticipated;(ii)  actuarial projections of payments required of the pool;(iii)  the expenses of administration; and(iv)  the anticipated reserves or losses of the pool.(b)  The budget for operation of the pool is subject to the approval of the board.(c)  The administrative budget of the board and the commissioner under this chapter shallcomply with the requirements of Title 63, Chapter 38, Budgetary Procedures Act, and is subjectto review and approval by the Legislature.the commissioner(d)  marketing and underwriting;(e)  proven ability for managed care and quality assurance;(f)  provider contracting and discounts;(g)  pharmacy benefit management;(h)(i)is responsible for all operational functions of the pool andmarketing,, enrollment, member agreements,enrolleesenrolleesan individualthe individual(ii)and(iii)  meets the health underwriting criteria under Subsection (4)(a).an individualindividualindividualindividualcreditableindividualindividualindividualindividual'sindividual, a dependent of an eligible employee,, dependents,(viii)  at the time the pool coverage is applied for, the individual has coveragesubstantially equivalent to a pool policy, as established by the board in administrative rule, eitheras an insured or a covered dependent, or the individual would be eligible for the substantiallyequivalent coverage if the individual elected to obtain the coverage; or(ix)individualHIPAA eligible(ix)an individualprevious riskwithsimilar coveragethis state's pooltherisk poolrisk poolan individualto the extent to whichifindividualnolater thandate ofhealthboard, with approval of the commissioner,an individualby the poolof insurabilityindividualan individualpoolan individualindividual'san individuala poolindividualan individualan enrolleethe enrollee'scoveragepoolan enrolleethe enrolleean enrollee'senrollee'scoverageenrolleean individualindividualan individualNotwithstanding the provision ofSubsection 

31A-29-111

(1)(b)(i), an individual isand if:(a)  the individual's eligibility for Medicaid requires a spenddown, as defined by rule, thatexceeds the premium for a pool policy; or(b)  the individual is eligible for the Primary Care Network program administered by theDepartment of Health.medicalmedicalallowedestablished by the boardpool(a)for a preexistingconditionfor.(b)  Subsection (7)(a) does not apply to a HIPAA eligible individual.HIPAA(9)will waive thedescribed in Subsection (7)(a) for, to the extent to which similar exclusions have beensatisfied under any prior health insurance coverage, other than for nonpayment of premiums,or(ii)provided that the application for pool coverage is made no later than 63 days followingthe termination from the prior health insurance coverage(b)  In accordance with Subsections (7)(b) and (8), the pool may not apply a preexistingcondition exclusion if the individual is HIPAA eligible.(c)(9)(10)  Covered benefits available from the pool may not exceed a $1,000,000 lifetimemaximum, which includes a per enrollee calendar year maximum established by the board.limitsOther higherdeductible plans may be offered by the pool.isallthemedicalas defined in Section 

31A-29-113

,enrollee until thedeductible has been satisfied.  There are no benefits payable before the deductible has beensatisfied(d)  The pool may offer separate deductibles for prescription benefits.(a)limitscoinsuranceat leastmedical(b)  Any coinsurance imposed under this Subsection (2) shall be designated in the poolpolicy.medicalincurredenrollee:(a)calendar;(b)  $2,000 per individual per calendar year for the $1,000 deductible plan; or(c)  if other deductible plans are offered by the pool, an amount per individual will beestablished by the board.(a)When the enrollee has incurred the maximum aggregateout-of-pocket payments undercoinsurancemedical(b)  The circumstances in which the coinsurance authorized by this Subsection (4) may beimposed shall be designated in the pool policy.(c)  The coinsurance authorized by this Subsection (4)medical(5)  The limits on maximum aggregate out-of-pocket payments for eligible medicalexpenses incurred by the enrollee in the form of deductibles and coinsurance under this sectionshall not include out-of-pocket payments for prescription benefits.an enrollee'senrollee'senrollee'sof insurabilityan enrolleean enrollee's(a)enrollee's; and(b) (i)  the enrollee establishes a residency outside of Utah for three consecutive months;(ii)  there is nonpayment of premiums; or(iii)  the pool determines that the enrollee does not meet the eligibility requirements setforth in Section 

31A-29-111

, in which case:(A)   the policy may be retroactively terminated for the period of time in which theenrollee was not eligible;(B)  retroactive termination may not exceed three years; and(C)  the board's remedy under this Subsection (2)(b) shall be a cause of action against theenrollee for benefits paid during the period of ineligibility in accordance with Subsection

31A-29-119

(3)., as defined in Section 

31A-1-301

,may be adjusted by the board on abiannual basis, for an effective date of January 1 and July 1an individualHIPAAindividualHIPAAany limitedenrollee(3)appropriationspoolthe executive director,Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 9 SB0009.ZIP
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 9 Enrolled





            

    
 COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH INSURANCE POOL

            

    
 AMENDMENTS



            

    
2003 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    


 Sponsor:  Gene  Davis



            

    
 This act modifies the Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool Act.  The act amends
            

    
 definitions.  The act amends the number of board members required for a quorum, the
            

    
 powers of the board, and the duties of the pool administrator.  The act amends eligibility
            

    
 for the pool and the application of preexisting conditions in order to be in compliance
            

    
 with federal law and to incorporate provisions of the Primary Care Network waiver for
            

    
 the state Medicaid program.  The act amends provisions related to copays, deductibles,
            

    
 and cancellations of coverage.  The act amends the frequency with which premiums may
            

    
 be adjusted.  The act amends benefit reduction and immunity provisions.  The act makes
            

    
 technical changes.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     31A-29-103, as last amended by Chapters 9 and 116, Laws of Utah 2001
            

    
     31A-29-104, as last amended by Chapter 176, Laws of Utah 2002
            

    
     31A-29-106, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     31A-29-107, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     31A-29-109, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     31A-29-110, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     31A-29-111, as last amended by Chapter 114, Laws of Utah 2000
            

    
     31A-29-112, as last amended by Chapter 265, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     31A-29-113, as last amended by Chapter 308, Laws of Utah 2002
            

    
     31A-29-114, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     31A-29-115, as repealed and reenacted by Chapter 265, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     31A-29-117, as last amended by Chapter 116, Laws of Utah 2001
            

    
     31A-29-119, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990

            

    
     31A-29-120, as last amended by Chapter 265, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     31A-29-122, as enacted by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
31A-29-103

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-103.  Definitions.
            

    
    As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Board" means the board of directors of the pool created in Section 

31A-29-104

.
            

    
    (2) (a)  "Creditable coverage" has the same meaning as provided in the Health Insurance
            

    
Portability and Accountability Act, Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat.1956, Sec. 2701(c)(1) and 45
            

    
C.F.R. Sec. 146.11(a)(1);
            

    
    (b)  "Creditable coverage" does not include a period of time in which there is a significant
            

    
break in coverage as described in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub.
            

    
L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1956, Sec. 2701(c)(2).
            

    
    (3)  "Enrollee" means an individual who has met the eligibility requirements of the pool
            

    
and is covered by a pool policy under this chapter.
            

    
    [(2)] (4)  "Health care facility" means any entity providing health care services which is
            

    
licensed under Title 26, Chapter 21.
            

    
    [(3)] (5)  "Health care provider" has the same meaning as provided in Section 

78-14-3

.
            

    
    [(4)] (6)  "Health care services" means any service or product used in furnishing to any
            

    
individual medical care or hospitalization, or incidental to furnishing medical care or
            

    
hospitalization, and any other service or product furnished for the purpose of preventing,
            

    
alleviating, curing, or healing human illness or injury.
            

    
    [(5)] (7) (a)  "Health insurance" means any:
            

    
    (i)  hospital and medical expense-incurred policy;
            

    
    (ii)  nonprofit health care service plan contract; [and] or
            

    
    (iii)  health maintenance organization subscriber contract.
            

    
    (b)  "Health insurance" does not [include] mean:
            

    
    (i)  any insurance arising out of the Workers' Compensation Act or similar law[,];

- 2 -

            

    
    (ii)  automobile medical payment insurance[,]; or
            

    
    (iii)  insurance under which benefits are payable with or without regard to fault and which
            

    
is required by law to be contained in any liability insurance policy.
            

    
    [(6)] (8)  "Health maintenance organization" has the same meaning as provided in Section
            

    

31A-8-101

.
            

    
    [(7)] (9)  "Health plan" means any arrangement by which [a person] an individual,
            

    
including a dependent or spouse, covered or making application to be covered under the pool has
            

    
access to hospital and medical benefits or reimbursement including group or individual insurance
            

    
or subscriber contract; coverage through a health maintenance organization, preferred provider
            

    
prepayment, group practice, or individual practice plan; coverage under an uninsured
            

    
arrangement of group or group-type contracts including employer self-insured, cost-plus, or other
            

    
benefits methodologies not involving insurance; coverage under a group type contract which is
            

    
not available to the general public and can be obtained only because of connection with a
            

    
particular organization or group; and coverage by Medicare or other governmental benefit.  The
            

    
term includes coverage through health insurance.
            

    
    [(8)  "Insured" means an individual resident of this state who is eligible to receive
            

    
benefits from any insurer, health maintenance organization, or other health plan.]
            

    
    (10)  "HIPAA" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub. L.
            

    
No. 104-191, 110 Stat.1962.
            

    
    (11)  "HIPAA eligible" means an individual who is eligible under the provisions of the
            

    
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1979, Sec. 
            

    
2741(b).
            

    
    [(9)] (12)  "Insurer" means an insurance company authorized to transact accident and
            

    
health insurance business in this state, health maintenance organization, and a self-insurer not
            

    
subject to federal preemption.
            

    
    [(10)] (13)  "Medicaid" means coverage under Title XIX of the Social Security Act, 42
            

    
U.S.C. Sec. 1396 et seq., as amended.
            

    
    [(11)] (14)  "Medicare" means coverage under both Part A and B of Title XVIII of the

- 3 -

            

    
Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., as amended.
            

    
    [(12)] (15)  "Plan of operation" means the plan developed by the board in accordance
            

    
with Section 

31A-29-105

 and includes the articles, bylaws, and operating rules adopted by the
            

    
board under Section 

31A-29-106

.
            

    
    [(13)] (16)  "Pool" means the Utah Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool created in
            

    
Section 

31A-29-104

.
            

    
    [(14)] (17)  "Pool fund" means the Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool Enterprise
            

    
Fund created in Section 

31A-29-120

.
            

    
    [(15)] (18)  "Pool policy" means [an] a health insurance policy issued under this chapter.
            

    
    (19)  "Preexisting condition" means a condition, regardless of the cause of the condition,
            

    
for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received within the
            

    
six-month period immediately prior to the enrollment date.
            

    
    (20)  "Resident" or "residency" means an individual who is domiciled in this state as
            

    
defined in Section 

23-13-2

.
            

    
    [(16)] (21)  "Third-party administrator" has the same meaning as provided in Section
            

    

31A-1-301

.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
31A-29-104

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-104.  Creation of pool -- Board of directors -- Appointment -- Terms --
            

    
 Quorum -- Plan preparation.
            

    
    (1)  There is created the "Utah Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool," a nonprofit entity
            

    
within the Insurance Department.
            

    
    (2)  The pool shall be under the direction of a board of directors composed of 11
            

    
members.
            

    
    (a)  The governor shall appoint the directors with the consent of the Senate as follows:
            

    
    (i)  two representatives of health insurance companies or health service organizations;
            

    
    (ii)  one representative of a health maintenance organization;
            

    
    (iii)  one physician;
            

    
    (iv)  one representative of hospitals;

- 4 -

            

    
    (v)  one representative of the general public who is reasonably expected to qualify for
            

    
coverage under the pool;
            

    
    (vi)  one parent or spouse of such an individual;
            

    
    (vii)  one representative of the general public; and
            

    
    (viii)  one representative of employers.
            

    
    (b)  The board shall also include:
            

    
    (i)  the commissioner or his designee; and
            

    
    (ii)  the executive director of the Department of Health or his designee.
            

    
    (3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board members
            

    
expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.
            

    
    (b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time
            

    
of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board
            

    
members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.
            

    
    (4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be
            

    
appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
            

    
    (5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no compensation or
            

    
benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of
            

    
the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections
            

    

63A-3-106

 and 

63A-3-107

 from the Pool Fund.
            

    
    (ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
            

    
    (b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive salary, per
            

    
diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive per diem and expenses incurred
            

    
in the performance of their official duties from the pool at the rates established by the Division of
            

    
Finance under Sections 

63A-3-106

 and 

63A-3-107

.
            

    
    (ii)  A state government member who is a member because of their state government
            

    
position may not receive per diem or expenses for their service.
            

    
    (iii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per diem
            

    
and expenses for their service.

- 5 -

            

    
    (6)  The board shall elect annually a chair and vice chair from its membership.
            

    
    (7)  [Seven] Six board members are a quorum for the transaction of business.
            

    
    (8)  The action of a majority of the members of the quorum is the action of the board.
            

    
    (9)  The board shall submit a plan of operation to the commissioner no later than January
            

    
1, 1991.
            

    
    (10)  The sale of policies under this chapter shall commence on July 1, 1991, or as soon
            

    
thereafter as adequate funding for the coverage is available as determined by the commissioner.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
31A-29-106

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-106.  Powers of board.
            

    
    (1)  The board shall have the general powers and authority granted under the laws of this
            

    
state to insurance companies licensed to transact health care insurance business.  In addition, the
            

    
board shall have the specific authority to:
            

    
    [(1)] (a)  enter into contracts to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter,
            

    
including, with the approval of the commissioner, contracts with:
            

    
    [(a)] (i)  similar pools of other states for the joint performance of common administrative
            

    
functions; or
            

    
    [(b)] (ii)  persons or other organizations for the performance of administrative functions;
            

    
    [(2)] (b)  sue or be sued, including taking such legal action necessary to avoid the
            

    
payment of improper claims against the pool or the coverage provided through the pool;
            

    
    [(3)] (c)  establish appropriate rates, rate schedules, rate adjustments, expense allowances,
            

    
agents' referral fees, claim reserve formulas, and any other actuarial function appropriate to the
            

    
operation of the pool;
            

    
    [(4)] (d)  issue policies of insurance in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
            

    
    [(5)] (e)  retain an executive director and appropriate legal, actuarial, and other personnel
            

    
as necessary to provide technical assistance in the operations of the pool;
            

    
    [(6)] (f)  establish rules, conditions, and procedures for reinsuring risks under this
            

    
chapter;
            

    
    [(7)] (g)  cause the pool to have an annual audit of its operations by the state auditor;

- 6 -

            

    
    [(8)] (h)  coordinate with the Department of Health in seeking to obtain from the [United
            

    
States Health Care Financing Administration] Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or
            

    
other appropriate office or agency of government, all appropriate waivers, authority, and
            

    
permission needed to coordinate the coverage available from the pool with coverage available
            

    
under Medicaid, either before or after Medicaid coverage, or as a conversion option upon
            

    
completion of Medicaid eligibility, without the necessity for requalification by the [insured]
            

    
enrollee;
            

    
    [(9)] (i)  provide for and employ cost containment measures and requirements including
            

    
preadmission certification, concurrent inpatient review, and individual case management for the
            

    
purpose of making the pool more cost-effective;
            

    
    [(10)] (j)  offer pool coverage through contracts with health maintenance organizations,
            

    
preferred provider organizations, and other managed care systems that will manage costs while
            

    
maintaining quality care;
            

    
    [(11)] (k)  establish annual limits on benefits payable under the pool to or on behalf of
            

    
any [person] enrollee;
            

    
    [(12)] (l)  exclude from coverage under the pool specific benefits, medical conditions, and
            

    
procedures for the purpose of protecting the financial viability of the pool;
            

    
    [(13)] (m)  administer the Pool Fund; [and]
            

    
    [(14)] (n)  make rules in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative
            

    
Rulemaking Act, to implement this chapter[.]; and
            

    
    (o)  adopt, trademark, and copyright a trade name for the pool for use in marketing and
            

    
publicizing the pool and its products.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The board shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Legislature which shall
            

    
include:
            

    
    (i)  the net premiums anticipated;
            

    
    (ii)  actuarial projections of payments required of the pool;
            

    
    (iii)  the expenses of administration; and
            

    
    (iv)  the anticipated reserves or losses of the pool.

- 7 -

            

    
    (b)  The budget for operation of the pool is subject to the approval of the board.
            

    
    (c)  The administrative budget of the board and the commissioner under this chapter shall
            

    
comply with the requirements of Title 63, Chapter 38, Budgetary Procedures Act, and is subject
            

    
to review and approval by the Legislature.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
31A-29-107

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-107.  Powers of commissioner.
            

    
    (1)  The commissioner shall, after notice and hearing, approve the plan of operation if
            

    
[he] the commissioner determines that the plan will assure the fair, reasonable, and equitable
            

    
administration of the pool.
            

    
    (2)  The plan shall be effective upon the commissioner's written approval.
            

    
    (3)  If the board fails to submit a proposed plan of operation by January 1, 1991, or any
            

    
time thereafter fails to submit proposed amendments to the plan of operation within a reasonable
            

    
time after requested by the commissioner, the commissioner shall, after notice and hearing, adopt
            

    
such rules as necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
            

    
    (4)  Rules promulgated by the commissioner shall continue in force until modified by him
            

    
or until superseded by a subsequent plan of operation submitted by the board and approved by
            

    
the commissioner.
            

    
    (5)  The commissioner may designate an executive secretary from the department to
            

    
provide administrative assistance to the board in carrying out its responsibilities.
            

    
    [(6) (a)  The board shall prepare and submit annually to the Legislature a budget forecast
            

    
for operation of the pool which shall include:]
            

    
    [(i)  the net premiums anticipated;]
            

    
    [(ii)  actuarial projections of payments required of the pool;]
            

    
    [(iii)  the expenses of administration; and]
            

    
    [(iv)  the anticipated reserves or losses of the pool.]
            

    
    [(b)  The budget for operation of the pool is subject to the approval of the board.]
            

    
    [(c)  The administrative budget of the board and the commission under this chapter shall
            

    
comply with the requirements of Title 63, Chapter 38, Budgetary Procedures Act, and is subject

- 8 -

            

    
to review and approval by the Legislature.]
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
31A-29-109

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-109.  Policy forms.
            

    
    [(1)]  All policy forms issued by the pool shall conform in substance to forms developed
            

    
by the board and shall be filed with the commissioner before they are issued.
            

    
    [(2)  The pool may not issue a pool policy to any person, who on the effective date of the
            

    
coverage applied for, has coverage substantially equivalent to a pool policy either as an insured
            

    
or a covered dependent, or who would be eligible for that coverage if he elected to obtain it.]
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
31A-29-110

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-110.  Pool administrator -- Selection -- Powers.
            

    
    (1)  The board shall select a pool administrator in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 56,
            

    
Utah Procurement Code.  The board shall evaluate bids based on criteria established by the
            

    
board, which shall include:
            

    
    (a)  ability to manage medical expenses;
            

    
    (b)  proven ability to handle accident and health insurance;
            

    
    (c)  efficiency of claim paying procedures;
            

    
    (d)  marketing and underwriting;
            

    
    (e)  proven ability for managed care and quality assurance;
            

    
    (f)  provider contracting and discounts;
            

    
    (g)  pharmacy benefit management;
            

    
    [(d)] (h)  an estimate of total charges for administering the pool; and
            

    
    [(e)] (i)  ability to administer the pool in a cost-efficient manner.
            

    
    (2)  A pool administrator may be:
            

    
    (a)  a health insurer;
            

    
    (b)  a health maintenance organization;
            

    
    (c)  a third-party administrator; or
            

    
    (d)  any person or entity which has demonstrated ability to meet the criteria in Subsection
            

    
(1).

- 9 -

            

    
    (3) (a)  The pool administrator shall serve for a period of three years subject to removal
            

    
for cause and subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of the contract between the board
            

    
and the administrator.
            

    
    (b)  At least one year prior to the expiration of each three-year period of service by the
            

    
pool administrator, the board shall invite all interested parties, including the current pool
            

    
administrator, to submit bids to serve as the pool administrator for the succeeding three-year
            

    
period.
            

    
    (c)  Selection of the pool administrator for a succeeding period shall be made at least six
            

    
months prior to the expiration of a three-year period of service by the pool administrator.
            

    
    (4)  The pool administrator is responsible for all operational functions of the pool and
            

    
shall:
            

    
    (a)  have access to all nonpatient specific experience data, statistics, treatment criteria,
            

    
and guidelines compiled or adopted by the Medicaid program, the Public Employees Health Plan,
            

    
the Department of Health, or the Insurance Department, and which are not otherwise declared by
            

    
statute to be confidential;
            

    
    (b)  perform all marketing, eligibility, enrollment, member agreements, and
            

    
administrative claim payment functions relating to the pool;
            

    
    (c)  establish, administer, and operate a monthly premium billing procedure for collection
            

    
of premiums from [insured persons] enrollees;
            

    
    (d)  perform all necessary functions to assure timely payment of benefits to [persons
            

    
covered under the pool] enrollees, including:
            

    
    (i)  making information available relating to the proper manner of submitting a claim for
            

    
benefits to the pool administrator and distributing forms upon which submission shall be made;
            

    
and
            

    
    (ii)  evaluating the eligibility of each claim for payment by the pool;
            

    
    (e)  submit regular reports to the board regarding the operation of the pool, the frequency,
            

    
content, and form of which reports shall be determined by the board;
            

    
    (f)  following the close of each calendar year, determine net written and earned premiums,

- 10 -

            

    
the expense of administration, and the paid and incurred losses for the year and submit a report of
            

    
this information to the board, the commissioner, and the Division of Finance on a form
            

    
prescribed by the commissioner; and
            

    
    (g)  be paid as provided in the plan of operation for expenses incurred in the performance
            

    
of the pool administrator's services.
            

    
    Section 7.  
Section  
31A-29-111

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-111.  Eligibility -- Limitations.
            

    
    (1) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), [a person] an individual is eligible for
            

    
pool coverage if the individual:
            

    
    (i) [(A)  the person] pays the established premium; [and]
            

    
    [(B)] (ii)  is a resident of this state; [or] and
            

    
    (iii)  meets the health underwriting criteria under Subsection (4)(a).
            

    
    [(ii)  is a dependent child 25 years of age or less of a person described in Subsection
            

    
(1)(a)(i).]
            

    
    (b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), [a person] an individual is not eligible for pool
            

    
coverage if one of the following conditions apply:
            

    
    (i)  at the time of application, the [person] individual is eligible for health care benefits
            

    
under Medicaid or Medicare, except as provided in Section 

31A-29-112

;
            

    
    (ii)  the [person] individual has terminated coverage in the pool, unless:
            

    
    (A)  12 months have elapsed since the termination date; or
            

    
    (B)  the [person] individual demonstrates that [continuous other] creditable coverage has
            

    
been involuntarily terminated for any reason other than nonpayment of premium;
            

    
    (iii)  the pool has paid the maximum lifetime benefit to or on behalf of the [person]
            

    
individual;
            

    
    (iv)  the [person] individual is an inmate of a public institution;
            

    
    (v)  the [person] individual is eligible for other public programs for which medical care is
            

    
provided;
            

    
    (vi)  the [person's] individual's health condition does not meet the criteria established

- 11 -

            

    
under Subsection (4);
            

    
    (vii)  the [person] individual is an eligible employee, a dependent of an eligible employee,
            

    
or a member of an employer group that offers health insurance or a self-insurance arrangement to
            

    
all its eligible employees, dependents, or members; [or]
            

    
    (viii)  at the time the pool coverage is applied for, the individual has coverage
            

    
substantially equivalent to a pool policy, as established by the board in administrative rule, either
            

    
as an insured or a covered dependent, or the individual would be eligible for the substantially
            

    
equivalent coverage if the individual elected to obtain the coverage; or
            

    
    [(viii)] (ix)  at the time of application, the [person] individual:
            

    
    (A)  is not [eligible for coverage that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and
            

    
Accountability Act, P.L. 104-91, 110 Stat. 1962] HIPAA eligible; and
            

    
    (B)  has not resided in Utah for at least 12 consecutive months preceding the date of
            

    
application.
            

    
    (2) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(b)[(viii)](ix), if otherwise eligible under
            

    
Subsection (1), [a person] an individual whose health insurance coverage from a state health risk
            

    
pool with similar coverage is terminated because of nonresidency in another state may apply for
            

    
coverage under the pool subject to the conditions of Subsections (1)(b)(i) through (vii).
            

    
    (b) (i) Coverage sought under Subsection (2)(a) shall be applied for within 63 days after
            

    
the termination date of the previous risk pool coverage.
            

    
    (ii)  If premiums are paid for the entire coverage period under the previous risk pool with
            

    
similar coverage, the effective date of [the pool's] this state's pool coverage shall be the date of
            

    
termination of the previous risk pool coverage.
            

    
    (iii)  If premiums are not paid back to the previous risk pool termination date, then the
            

    
effective date will be determined by the pool administrator in accordance with the date of
            

    
application.
            

    
    (c)  The waiting period of [a person] an individual with a preexisting condition applying
            

    
for coverage under this chapter shall be waived [if]:
            

    
    (i)  to the extent to which the waiting period was satisfied under a similar plan from

- 12 -

            

    
another state; and
            

    
    (ii)  if the other state's benefit limitation was not reached.
            

    
    (3)  If an eligible [person] individual applies for pool coverage within 30 days of being
            

    
denied coverage by an individual carrier, the effective date for pool coverage shall be [set at] no
            

    
later than the first day of the month following the date of submission of the completed insurance
            

    
application to the carrier.
            

    
    (4) (a)  The board shall establish and adjust, as necessary, health underwriting criteria
            

    
based on:
            

    
    (i)  health condition; and
            

    
    (ii)  expected claims so that the expected claims are anticipated to remain within available
            

    
funding.
            

    
    (b)  The [commissioner] board, with approval of the commissioner, may contract with
            

    
one or more providers under Title 63, Chapter 56, Utah Procurement Code, to develop
            

    
underwriting criteria under Subsection (4)(a).
            

    
    (c)  If [a person] an individual is denied coverage by the pool under the criteria
            

    
established in Subsection (4)(a), the pool shall issue a certificate of insurability to the [applicant]
            

    
individual for coverage under Subsection 

31A-30-108

(3).
            

    
    Section 8.  
Section  
31A-29-112

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-112.  Medicaid recipients.
            

    
    (1)  If authorized by federal statutes or rules, [a person] an individual receiving Medicaid
            

    
benefits may continue to receive those benefits while satisfying the preexisting condition
            

    
requirements established by Section 

31A-29-113

 and the terms of the pool policy issued under
            

    
this chapter.
            

    
    (2)  If allowed by federal statute, federal regulation, state statute, or rule, the Department
            

    
of Health shall allocate premiums paid to the pool by [a person] an individual receiving Medicaid
            

    
benefits to that [person's] individual's spenddown for purposes of the Medicaid [no-grant]
            

    
program.
            

    
    (3) (a)  If [a person] an individual continues to receive Medicaid benefits after the

- 13 -

            

    
requirements for a preexisting condition are satisfied, the pool administrator may not issue [an
            

    
insurance] a pool policy or allow that [person] individual to receive any benefit from the pool.
            

    
    (b)  If [a person] an individual continues to receive Medicaid benefits when the
            

    
requirements for a preexisting condition are satisfied, the pool administrator shall give any
            

    
premiums collected by it during the preexisting conditions period to the Medicaid program.
            

    
    (4) (a)  If [any person is covered by a pool policy and] an enrollee becomes eligible to
            

    
receive Medicaid benefits, [that person's] the enrollee's coverage by the pool terminates as of the
            

    
effective date of [the receipt of] Medicaid [benefits] coverage.
            

    
    (b)  The pool administrator shall:
            

    
    (i)  include a provision in the [insurance] pool policy requiring [a person covered by a
            

    
pool policy] an enrollee to provide written notice to the pool administration if [he] the enrollee
            

    
becomes covered by Medicaid; and
            

    
    (ii)  terminate [a person's] an enrollee's coverage by the pool as of the effective date of the
            

    
[person's receipt of] enrollee's Medicaid [benefits] coverage when the pool administrator
            

    
becomes aware that the [person] enrollee is covered by Medicaid.
            

    
    (5)  If [a person] an individual terminates coverage under Medicaid and applies for
            

    
coverage under a pool policy within 45 days after terminating the coverage, the [person]
            

    
individual may begin coverage under a pool policy as of the date that Medicaid coverage
            

    
terminated, if [a person] an individual meets the other eligibility requirements of the chapter and
            

    
pays the required premium.
            

    
    (6)  [If a person's eligibility for Medicaid requires a spenddown, as defined in rule, that
            

    
exceeds the premium for a pool policy, that person shall be] Notwithstanding the provision of
            

    
Subsection 

31A-29-111

(1)(b)(i), an individual is eligible for coverage by the pool if the
            

    
[remaining] requirements of Section 

31A-29-111

 are met[.] and if:
            

    
    (a)  the individual's eligibility for Medicaid requires a spenddown, as defined by rule, that
            

    
exceeds the premium for a pool policy; or
            

    
    (b)  the individual is eligible for the Primary Care Network program administered by the
            

    
Department of Health.

- 14 -

            

    
    Section 9.  
Section  
31A-29-113

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-113.  Benefits -- Additional types of pool insurance -- Preexisting conditions
            

    
 -- Waiver -- Maximum benefits.
            

    
    (1) (a)  The pool policy shall pay for eligible medical expenses rendered or furnished for
            

    
the diagnoses or treatment of illness or injury that:
            

    
    (i)  exceed the deductible and copayment amounts applicable under Section 

31A-29-114

;
            

    
and
            

    
    (ii)  are not otherwise limited or excluded.
            

    
    (b)  Eligible medical expenses are the allowed charges established by the board for the
            

    
health care services and items rendered during times for which benefits are extended under the
            

    
pool policy.
            

    
    (2)  The coverage to be issued by the pool, its schedule of benefits, exclusions, and other
            

    
limitations shall be established by the board.
            

    
    (3)  The commissioner shall approve the benefit package developed by the board to
            

    
ensure its compliance with this chapter.
            

    
    (4)  The pool shall offer at least one benefit plan through a managed care program as
            

    
authorized under Section 

31A-29-106

.
            

    
    (5)  This chapter may not be construed to prohibit the pool from issuing additional types
            

    
of [health insurance] pool policies with different types of benefits which in the opinion of the
            

    
board may be of benefit to the citizens of Utah.
            

    
    (6)  The board shall design and require an administrator to employ cost containment
            

    
measures and requirements including preadmission certification and concurrent inpatient review
            

    
for the purpose of making the pool more cost effective.  The provisions of Sections 

31A-22-617


            

    
and 

31A-22-618

 [of this title] do not apply to coverage issued under this chapter.
            

    
    (7) (a)  A pool policy may contain provisions under which coverage for a preexisting
            

    
condition is excluded during a six-month period following the effective date of plan coverage [as
            

    
to] for a given individual [for a preexisting condition, as long as either of the following exists:].
            

    
    [(a)  the condition has manifested itself within a period of six months before the effective

- 15 -

            

    
date of coverage in such a manner as would cause an ordinary, prudent person to seek diagnosis
            

    
or treatment; or]
            

    
    [(b)  medical advice or treatment was recommended or received for the condition within a
            

    
period of six months before the effective date of coverage.]
            

    
    (b)  Subsection (7)(a) does not apply to a HIPAA eligible individual.
            

    
    (8)  A pool policy may exclude coverage for pregnancies for ten months following the
            

    
effective date of coverage, unless the individual is HIPAA eligible [to receive credit for previous
            

    
coverage under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, P. L. 104-91, 110 Stat.
            

    
1962].
            

    
    [(9) (a) For individuals changing from individual health insurance, as defined in
            

    
Subsection 

31A-29-103

(5), to the health insurance pool, the preexisting condition exclusion
            

    
described in Subsection (7) shall be waived to the extent to which similar exclusions have been
            

    
satisfied under any prior health insurance coverage:]
            

    
    [(i)  which was involuntarily terminated, other than for nonpayment of premium, if the
            

    
application for pool coverage is made not later than 63 days following the involuntary
            

    
termination; or]
            

    
    [(ii)  whose premium rate exceeds the rate of the pool for equal or lesser benefits.]
            

    
    [(b)  If Subsection (9)(a) applies, coverage in the pool shall be effective from the date on
            

    
which the prior coverage was terminated.]
            

    
    [(10)] (9) (a)  The pool [may not apply any] will waive the preexisting condition
            

    
exclusion [to] described in Subsection (7)(a) for an individual that is changing [group] health
            

    
coverage to the [health insurance] pool, to the extent to which similar exclusions have been
            

    
satisfied under any prior health insurance coverage if:
            

    
    (i)  the individual applies not later than 63 days following the date of involuntary
            

    
termination, other than for nonpayment of premiums, from [group] health coverage; or
            

    
    [(ii)  the individual has at least 18 months of creditable coverage as of the date the
            

    
individual seeks coverage from:]
            

    
    [(A)  the health insurance pool; or]

- 16 -

            

    
    [(B)  an individual health plan;]
            

    
    [(iii)  the individual's most recent prior creditable coverage was under:]
            

    
    [(A)  a group health plan;]
            

    
    [(B)  a government plan; or]
            

    
    [(C)  a church plan;]
            

    
    [(iv)  the individual is not eligible for coverage under:]
            

    
    [(A)  a group health plan;]
            

    
    [(B)  Part A or Part B of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act; or]
            

    
    [(C)  a state plan under Title XIX of the Social Security Act;]
            

    
    [(v)  the individual does not have other health insurance coverage;]
            

    
    [(vi)  the individual's most recent coverage was not terminated because of:]
            

    
    [(A)  nonpayment of premiums; or]
            

    
    [(B)  fraud;]
            

    
    [(vii)  the individual has been offered the option of continuing coverage under:]
            

    
    [(A)  a continuation provision; or]
            

    
    [(B)  a similar state extension program; and]
            

    
    [(viii)] (ii)  the individual's premium rate exceeds the rate of the pool for equal or lesser
            

    
coverage provided that the application for pool coverage is made no later than 63 days following
            

    
the termination from the prior health insurance coverage.
            

    
    (b)  In accordance with Subsections (7)(b) and (8), the pool may not apply a preexisting
            

    
condition exclusion if the individual is HIPAA eligible.
            

    
    [(b)] (c)  If Subsection [(10)(a)] (9) applies, coverage in the pool shall be effective from
            

    
the date on which the prior coverage was terminated.
            

    
    [(11)  The board shall establish a policy allowing for the waiver of the preexisting
            

    
condition exclusion set forth in Subsection (7) for coverage of medically necessary outpatient
            

    
medical care.]
            

    
    [(12)  Benefits available under the pool may not exceed $1,000,000 paid to or on behalf
            

    
of any person.]

- 17 -

            

    
    (10)  Covered benefits available from the pool may not exceed a $1,000,000 lifetime
            

    
maximum, which includes a per enrollee calendar year maximum established by the board.
            

    
    Section 10.  
Section  
31A-29-114

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-114.  Deductibles -- Copayments.
            

    
    (1) (a)  Subject to the [limitation] limits provided in Subsection (3), a pool policy shall
            

    
impose a deductible on a per calendar year basis.
            

    
    (b)  Deductible plans of $500 and $1,000 shall initially be offered.  Other higher
            

    
deductible plans may be offered by the pool.
            

    
    (c)  The deductible [must be] is applied to [the first $500 or $1,000] all of the eligible
            

    
medical expenses as defined in Section 

31A-29-113

, incurred by the [insured] enrollee until the
            

    
deductible has been satisfied.  There are no benefits payable before the deductible has been
            

    
satisfied.
            

    
    [(d)  No more than three deductibles under the pool policy per family may be applied.]
            

    
    (d)  The pool may offer separate deductibles for prescription benefits.
            

    
    (2) (a)  Subject to the [limitations] limits provided in Subsection (3), a mandatory
            

    
[copayment] coinsurance requirement shall be imposed at the rate of at least 20% of eligible
            

    
medical expenses in excess of the mandatory deductible.
            

    
    (b)  Any coinsurance imposed under this Subsection (2) shall be designated in the pool
            

    
policy.
            

    
    (3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), the maximum aggregate out-of-pocket
            

    
payments for eligible medical expenses incurred by the [insured] enrollee in the form of
            

    
deductibles and coinsurance may not exceed:
            

    
    (a)  $1,500 per individual [or $2,500 per family] per [policy] calendar year for the $500
            

    
deductible plan[.  For the $1,000 deductible plan, the maximum aggregate out-of-pocket
            

    
payments for eligible expenses by the insured in the form of deductibles and coinsurance may not
            

    
exceed $2,000 per individual or $3,000 per family per policy year.];
            

    
    (b)  $2,000 per individual per calendar year for the $1,000 deductible plan; or
            

    
    (c)  if other deductible plans are offered by the pool, an amount per individual will be

- 18 -

            

    
established by the board.
            

    
    (4) (a)  [Notwithstanding] When the enrollee has incurred the maximum aggregate
            

    
out-of-pocket payments under Subsection (3), the board may establish a [copayment] coinsurance
            

    
requirement to be imposed on eligible medical expenses in excess of the maximum aggregate
            

    
out-of-pocket expense limits set forth in Subsection (3).  [Such copayment requirement]
            

    
    (b)  The circumstances in which the coinsurance authorized by this Subsection (4) may be
            

    
imposed shall be designated in the pool policy.
            

    
    (c)  The coinsurance authorized by this Subsection (4) may be imposed at a rate not to
            

    
exceed 5% of eligible medical expenses.
            

    
    (5)  The limits on maximum aggregate out-of-pocket payments for eligible medical
            

    
expenses incurred by the enrollee in the form of deductibles and coinsurance under this section
            

    
shall not include out-of-pocket payments for prescription benefits.
            

    
    Section 11.  
Section  
31A-29-115

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-115.  Cancellation -- Notice.
            

    
    (1) (a)  On the date of renewal, the pool may cancel [a person's] an enrollee's policy if:
            

    
    (i)  the [person's] enrollee's health condition does not meet the criteria established in
            

    
Subsection 

31A-29-111

(4);
            

    
    (ii)  the pool has provided written notice to the [person's] enrollee's last-known address no
            

    
less than 60 days before cancellation; and
            

    
    (iii)  at least one individual carrier has not reached the individual enrollment cap
            

    
established in Section 

31A-30-110

.
            

    
    (b)  The pool shall issue a certificate of insurability to [a person] an enrollee whose policy
            

    
is cancelled under Subsection (1)(a) for coverage under Subsection 

31A-30-108

(3) if the
            

    
requirements of Subsection 

31A-29-111

(4) are met.
            

    
    (2)  The pool may cancel [a person's] an enrollee's policy at any time if: 
            

    
    [(a)  the person establishes a residency outside of Utah for three consecutive months; and]
            

    
    [(b)] (a)  the pool has provided written notice to the [person's] enrollee's last-known
            

    
address no less than 15 days before cancellation[.]; and

- 19 -

            

    
    (b) (i)  the enrollee establishes a residency outside of Utah for three consecutive months;
            

    
    (ii)  there is nonpayment of premiums; or
            

    
    (iii)  the pool determines that the enrollee does not meet the eligibility requirements set
            

    
forth in Section 

31A-29-111

, in which case:
            

    
    (A)   the policy may be retroactively terminated for the period of time in which the
            

    
enrollee was not eligible;
            

    
    (B)  retroactive termination may not exceed three years; and
            

    
    (C)  the board's remedy under this Subsection (2)(b) shall be a cause of action against the
            

    
enrollee for benefits paid during the period of ineligibility in accordance with Subsection
            

    


31A-29-119

(3).
            

    
    Section 12.  
Section  
31A-29-117

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-117.  Premium rates.
            

    
    (1) (a)  Premium charges for coverage under the pool may not be unreasonable in relation
            

    
to:
            

    
    (i)  the benefits provided;
            

    
    (ii)  the risk experience; and
            

    
    (iii)  the reasonable expenses provided in the coverage.
            

    
    (b)  Separate schedules of premium rates based on age and other appropriate demographic
            

    
characteristics may apply for individual risks.
            

    
    (2)  A small employer carrier, as defined in Section 

31A-1-301

, shall annually inform the
            

    
commissioner by April 1 of the carrier's:
            

    
    (a)  small employer index premium rates as of March 1 of the current and preceding year;
            

    
and
            

    
    (b)  average percentage change in the index premium rate as of March 1, of the current
            

    
and preceding year.
            

    
    (3) (a)  Premium rates [in effect as of January 1, 1997, shall be adjusted on July 1, 1997,
            

    
and each following July 1 may be adjusted by the board] may be adjusted by the board on a
            

    
biannual basis, for an effective date of January 1 and July 1.

- 20 -

            

    
    (b)  In adjusting premium rates, the board shall:
            

    
    (i)  consider the average increase in small employer index rates for the five largest small
            

    
employer carriers submitted under Subsection (2); and
            

    
    (ii)  be subject to Subsection (1).
            

    
    (4)  The board may establish a premium scale based on income.  The highest rate may not
            

    
exceed the expected claims and expenses for the individual.
            

    
    (5)  If [a person] an individual is [an] HIPAA eligible [individual as defined in the Health
            

    
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, P.L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1979, Sec. 2741(b)], the
            

    
maximum premium rate for that [person] individual may not exceed the amount permitted under
            

    
[P.L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1986, Sec. 2744(c)(2)(B)] HIPAA.
            

    
    (6)  All rates and rate schedules shall be submitted by the board to the commissioner for
            

    
approval.
            

    
    Section 13.  
Section  
31A-29-119

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-119.  Benefit reduction.
            

    
    (1)  The pool shall be the last payer of benefits whenever any other  benefit is available.
            

    
    (2)  Benefits otherwise payable under pool coverage shall be reduced by:
            

    
    (a)  all amounts paid or payable through any other health insurance or any limited health
            

    
benefit plan, including a self-insured plan;
            

    
    (b)  all hospital and medical expense benefits paid or payable under any workers'
            

    
compensation coverage, automobile medical payment, or liability insurance, whether provided on
            

    
the basis of fault or no-fault; and
            

    
    (c)  any hospital or medical benefits paid or payable under or provided pursuant to any
            

    
state or federal law program.
            

    
    (3)  The pool administrator shall have a cause of action against an [insured] enrollee for
            

    
the recovery of the amount of benefits paid which are not for covered expenses.  Benefits due
            

    
from the pool may be reduced or refused as a set-off against any amount recoverable under this
            

    
Subsection (3).
            

    
    Section 14.  
Section  
31A-29-120

 is amended to read:

- 21 -

            

    
     31A-29-120.  Enterprise fund.
            

    
    (1)  There is created an enterprise fund known as the Comprehensive Health Insurance
            

    
Pool Enterprise Fund.
            

    
    (2)  The following funds shall be credited to the pool fund:
            

    
    (a) [$5,000,000 appropriated] appropriations from the General Fund [for Fiscal Year
            

    
1997-98];
            

    
    (b)  pool policy premium payments; and
            

    
    (c)  all interest and dividends earned on the pool fund's assets.
            

    
    (3)  All money received by the pool fund shall be deposited in compliance with Section
            

    

51-4-1

 and shall be held by the state treasurer and invested in accordance with Title 51, Chapter
            

    
7, State Money Management Act.
            

    
    (4)  The pool fund shall comply with the accounting policies, procedures, and reporting
            

    
requirements established by the Division of Finance.
            

    
    (5)  The pool fund shall comply with Title 63A, Utah Administrative Services Code.
            

    
    Section 15.  
Section  
31A-29-122

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-29-122.  Immunity.
            

    
    There is no liability on the part of and no cause of action of any nature may arise against
            

    
any member of the board, the board's agents or employees, the executive director, the
            

    
administrator or its agents or employees, or the commissioner for any action or omission by them
            

    
in effecting the provisions of this chapter.

- 22 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







