Sponsors: []Modifications: (a)(b), but may be evidence in mitigation of thepenalty in a capital felony under Section 

76-3-207

 and may be evidence of special mitigationreducing the level of a criminal homicide or attempted criminal homicide offense under Section

76-5-205.5

asserts a defense of insanity or diminished mental capacity, and who,, or ingestedif the alcohol or substance caused, triggered, orsubstantially contributed to the mental illness(a)(b)  "":(i);(ii)  anprimarily; or(f)  commits aggravated murder, but special mitigation is established under Section

76-5-205.5

.; or(d)  commits murder, but special mitigation is established under Section 

76-5-205.5

.    76-5-205.5.(1)  Special mitigation exists when:(a)  the actor causes the death of another under circumstances that are not legally justified,but the actor acts under a delusion attributable to a mental illness as defined in Section 

76-2-305

; and(b)  the nature of the delusion is such that, if the facts existed as the defendant believed themto be in his delusional state, those facts would provide a legal justification for his conduct.(2)  This section applies only if the defendant's actions, in light of his delusion, werereasonable from the objective viewpoint of a reasonable person.(3)  A defendant who was under the influence of voluntarily consumed, injected, or ingestedalcohol, controlled substances, or volatile substances at the time of the alleged offense may not claimmitigation of the offense under this section on the basis of mental illness if the alcohol or substancecaused, triggered, or substantially contributed to the mental illness.(4) (a)  If the trier of fact finds the elements of an offense as listed in Subsection (4)(b) areproven beyond a reasonable doubt, and also that the existence of special mitigation under this sectionis established by a preponderance of the evidence, it shall return a verdict on the reduced charge asprovided in Subsection (4)(b).(b)  If under Subsection (4)(a) the offense is:(i)  aggravated murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of murder;(ii)  attempted aggravated murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of attemptedmurder;(iii)  murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of manslaughter; or(iv)  attempted murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of attemptedmanslaughter.(5) (a)  If a jury is the trier of fact, a unanimous vote of the jury is required to establish theexistence of the special mitigation.(b)  If the jury does find special mitigation by a unanimous vote, it shall return a verdict onthe reduced charge as provided in Subsection (4).(c)  If the jury finds by a unanimous vote that special mitigation has not been established, itshall convict the defendant of the greater offense for which the prosecution has established all theelements beyond a reasonable doubt.(d)  If the jury is unable to unanimously agree whether or not special mitigation has beenestablished, the result is a hung jury.(6) (a)  If the issue of special mitigation is submitted to the trier of fact, it shall return aspecial verdict indicating whether the existence of special mitigation has been found.(b)  The trier of fact shall return the special verdict at the same time as the general verdict,to indicate the basis for its general verdict.(7)  Special mitigation under this section does not, in any case, reduce the level of an offenseby more than one degree from that offense, the elements of which the evidence has establishedbeyond a reasonable doubt.or proposes to offer evidence in mitigation of a criminalhomicide or attempted criminal homicide offense under Section 

76-5-205.5

,(a)or that he intends to assert specialmitigation under Section 

76-5-205.5

,(b)(c)(a)(b)(c)Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0020.ZIP 9,939 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 20 Enrolled





            

    
SPECIAL MITIGATION FOR MENTALLY ILL

            

    
 OFFENDERS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Paula F. Julander

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO CRIMINAL LAW; ESTABLISHING SPECIAL MITIGATION THAT
            

    
REDUCES THE CHARGES FOR HOMICIDE OFFENSES, BASED ON MENTAL
            

    
ILLNESS; PROVIDING STANDARD OF PROOF; AND PROVIDING PROCEDURE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     76-2-305, as last amended by Chapter 306, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
     76-5-203, as last amended by Chapter 123, Laws of Utah 1996
            

    
     76-5-205, as last amended by Chapter 177, Laws of Utah 1985
            

    
     77-14-4, as last amended by Chapter 254, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
     77-16a-301, as enacted by Chapter 171, Laws of Utah 1992
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     76-5-205.5, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
76-2-305

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-2-305.  Mental illness -- Use as a defense -- Influence of alcohol or other substance
            

    
 voluntarily consumed -- Definition.
            

    
    (1) (a)  It is a defense to a prosecution under any statute or ordinance that the defendant,
            

    
as a result of mental illness, lacked the mental state required as an element of the offense charged. 
            

    
    (b)  Mental illness is not otherwise a defense, but may be evidence in mitigation of the
            

    
penalty in a capital felony under Section 

76-3-207

 and may be evidence of special mitigation
            

    
reducing the level of a criminal homicide or attempted criminal homicide offense under Section
            

    


76-5-205.5

.
            

    
    (2)  The defense defined in this section includes the defenses known as "insanity" and
            

    
"diminished mental capacity."

            


    
    (3)  A person who asserts a defense of insanity or diminished mental capacity, and who is
            

    
under the influence of voluntarily consumed [or], injected, or ingested alcohol, controlled
            

    
substances, or volatile substances at the time of the alleged offense is not excused from criminal
            

    
responsibility on the basis of mental illness if the alcohol or substance caused, triggered, or
            

    
substantially contributed to the mental illness.
            

    
    (4) (a)  "Mental illness" means a mental disease or defect that substantially impairs a person's
            

    
mental, emotional, or behavioral functioning.  A mental defect may be a congenital condition, the
            

    
result of injury, or a residual effect of a physical or mental disease and includes, but is not limited
            

    
to, mental retardation.
            

    
    (b)  "Mental illness" does not mean:
            

    
    (i)  a personality or character disorder; or
            

    
    (ii)  an abnormality manifested [only] primarily by repeated criminal conduct.
            

    
    (5)  "Mental retardation" means a significant subaverage general intellectual functioning,
            

    
existing concurrently with deficits in adaptive behavior, and manifested during the developmental
            

    
period as defined by the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric
            

    
Association.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
76-5-203

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-5-203.  Murder.
            

    
    (1)  Criminal homicide constitutes murder if the actor:
            

    
    (a)  intentionally or knowingly causes the death of another;
            

    
    (b)  intending to cause serious bodily injury to another commits an act clearly dangerous to
            

    
human life that causes the death of another;
            

    
    (c)  acting under circumstances evidencing a depraved indifference to human life engages
            

    
in conduct which creates a grave risk of death to another and thereby causes the death of another;
            

    
    (d)  while in the commission, attempted commission, or immediate flight from the
            

    
commission or attempted commission of aggravated robbery, robbery, rape, object rape, forcible
            

    
sodomy, or aggravated sexual assault, aggravated arson, arson, aggravated burglary, burglary,
            

    
aggravated kidnapping, kidnapping, child kidnapping, rape of a child, object rape of a child, sodomy

            


    
upon a child, forcible sexual abuse, sexual abuse of a child, aggravated sexual abuse of a child, or
            

    
child abuse, as defined in Subsection 

76-5-109

 (2)(a), when the victim is younger than 14 years of
            

    
age, causes the death of another person other than a party as defined in Section 

76-2-202

; [or]
            

    
    (e)  recklessly causes the death of a peace officer while in the commission or attempted
            

    
commission of:
            

    
    (i)  an assault against a peace officer as defined in Section 

76-5-102.4

; or
            

    
    (ii)  interference with a peace officer while making a lawful arrest as defined in Section
            

    

76-8-305

 if the actor uses force against a peace officer[.]; or
            

    
    (f)  commits aggravated murder, but special mitigation is established under Section
            

    


76-5-205.5

.
            

    
    (2)  Murder is a first degree felony.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
76-5-205

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-5-205.  Manslaughter.
            

    
    (1)  Criminal homicide constitutes manslaughter if the actor:
            

    
    (a)  recklessly causes the death of another; [or]
            

    
    (b)  causes the death of another under the influence of extreme emotional disturbance for
            

    
which there is a reasonable explanation or excuse; [or]
            

    
    (c)  causes the death of another under circumstances where the actor reasonably believes the
            

    
circumstances provide a legal justification or excuse for his conduct although the conduct is not
            

    
legally justifiable or excusable under the existing circumstances[.]; or
            

    
    (d)  commits murder, but special mitigation is established under Section 

76-5-205.5

.
            

    
    (2)  Under Subsection (1) (b), emotional disturbance does not include a condition resulting
            

    
from mental illness as defined in Section 

76-2-305

.
            

    
    (3)  The reasonableness of an explanation or excuse under Subsection (1) (b), or the
            

    
reasonable belief of the actor under Subsection (1) (c), shall be determined from the viewpoint of
            

    
a reasonable person under the then existing circumstances.
            

    
    (4)  Manslaughter is a felony of the second degree.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
76-5-205.5

 is enacted to read:

            


    
     76-5-205.5.  Special mitigation reducing the level of criminal homicide offense -- Burden
            

    
 of proof -- Application to reduce offense.
            

    
    (1)  Special mitigation exists when:
            

    
    (a)  the actor causes the death of another under circumstances that are not legally justified,
            

    
but the actor acts under a delusion attributable to a mental illness as defined in Section 

76-2-305

; and
            

    
    (b)  the nature of the delusion is such that, if the facts existed as the defendant believed them
            

    
to be in his delusional state, those facts would provide a legal justification for his conduct.
            

    
    (2)  This section applies only if the defendant's actions, in light of his delusion, were
            

    
reasonable from the objective viewpoint of a reasonable person.
            

    
    (3)  A defendant who was under the influence of voluntarily consumed, injected, or ingested
            

    
alcohol, controlled substances, or volatile substances at the time of the alleged offense may not claim
            

    
mitigation of the offense under this section on the basis of mental illness if the alcohol or substance
            

    
caused, triggered, or substantially contributed to the mental illness.
            

    
    (4) (a)  If the trier of fact finds the elements of an offense as listed in Subsection (4)(b) are
            

    
proven beyond a reasonable doubt, and also that the existence of special mitigation under this section
            

    
is established by a preponderance of the evidence, it shall return a verdict on the reduced charge as
            

    
provided in Subsection (4)(b).
            

    
    (b)  If under Subsection (4)(a) the offense is:
            

    
    (i)  aggravated murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of murder;
            

    
    (ii)  attempted aggravated murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of attempted
            

    
murder;
            

    
    (iii)  murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of manslaughter; or
            

    
    (iv)  attempted murder, the defendant shall instead be found guilty of attempted
            

    
manslaughter.
            

    
    (5) (a)  If a jury is the trier of fact, a unanimous vote of the jury is required to establish the
            

    
existence of the special mitigation.
            

    
    (b)  If the jury does find special mitigation by a unanimous vote, it shall return a verdict on
            

    
the reduced charge as provided in Subsection (4).

            


    
    (c)  If the jury finds by a unanimous vote that special mitigation has not been established, it
            

    
shall convict the defendant of the greater offense for which the prosecution has established all the
            

    
elements beyond a reasonable doubt.
            

    
    (d)  If the jury is unable to unanimously agree whether or not special mitigation has been
            

    
established, the result is a hung jury.
            

    
    (6) (a)  If the issue of special mitigation is submitted to the trier of fact, it shall return a
            

    
special verdict indicating whether the existence of special mitigation has been found.
            

    
    (b)  The trier of fact shall return the special verdict at the same time as the general verdict,
            

    
to indicate the basis for its general verdict.
            

    
    (7)  Special mitigation under this section does not, in any case, reduce the level of an offense
            

    
by more than one degree from that offense, the elements of which the evidence has established
            

    
beyond a reasonable doubt.
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
77-14-4

 is amended to read:
            

    
     77-14-4.  Insanity or diminished mental capacity -- Notice requirement.
            

    
    (1)  If a defendant proposes to offer evidence that he is not guilty as a result of insanity or
            

    
that he had diminished mental capacity, or proposes to offer evidence in mitigation of a criminal
            

    
homicide or attempted criminal homicide offense under Section 

76-5-205.5

, he shall file and serve
            

    
the prosecuting attorney with written notice of his intention to claim the defense at the time of
            

    
arraignment or as soon afterward as practicable, but not fewer than 30 days before the trial.
            

    
    (2)  If the court receives notice that a defendant intends to claim that he is not guilty by
            

    
reason of insanity or that he had diminished mental capacity, the court shall proceed in accordance
            

    
with the requirements described in Section 

77-16a-301

.
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
77-16a-301

 is amended to read:
            

    
     77-16a-301.  Mental examination of defendant
            

    
    (1) (a)  When the court receives notice that a defendant intends to claim that he is not guilty
            

    
by reason of insanity or that he had diminished mental capacity, or that he intends to assert special
            

    
mitigation under Section 

76-5-205.5

, the court shall order the Department of Human Services to
            

    
examine the defendant and investigate his mental condition.

            


    
    (b)  The person or organization directed by the department to conduct the examination shall
            

    
testify at the request of the court or either party in any proceeding in which the testimony is
            

    
otherwise admissible.
            

    
    (c)  Pending trial, unless the court or the executive director directs otherwise, the defendant
            

    
shall be retained in the same custody or status he was in at the time the examination was ordered.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The defendant shall make himself available and fully cooperate in the examination
            

    
by the department and any other independent examiners for the defense and the prosecuting attorney.
            

    
    (b)  If the defendant fails to make himself available and fully cooperate, and that failure is
            

    
established to the satisfaction of the court at a hearing prior to trial, the defendant is barred from
            

    
presenting expert testimony relating to his defense of mental illness at the trial of the case.
            

    
    (c)  The department shall complete the examination within 30 days after the court's order, and
            

    
shall prepare and provide to the court prosecutor and defense counsel a written report concerning the
            

    
condition of the defendant.
            

    
    (3)  Within ten days after receipt of the report from the  department, but not later than five
            

    
days before the trial of the case, or at any other time the court directs, the prosecuting attorney shall
            

    
file and serve upon the defendant a notice of rebuttal of the defense of mental illness, which shall
            

    
contain the names of witnesses the prosecuting attorney proposes to call in rebuttal.
            

    
    (4)  The reports of any other independent examiner are admissible as evidence upon
            

    
stipulation of the prosecution and defense.
            

    
    (5)  This section does not prevent any party from producing any other testimony as to the
            

    
mental condition of the defendant.  Expert witnesses who are not appointed by the court are not
            

    
entitled to compensation under Subsection (7).
            

    
    (6)  This section does not require the admission of evidence not otherwise admissible.
            

    
    (7)  Expenses of examination ordered by the court under this section shall be paid by the
            

    
Department of Human Services.  Travel expenses associated with the examination incurred by the
            

    
defendant shall be charged by the department to the county where prosecution is commenced.
            

    
Examination of defendants charged with violation of municipal or county ordinances shall be
            

    
charged by the department to the entity commencing the prosecution.

            


    

[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







