Sponsors: []Modifications:     10-9-409.(1)  A municipality may only require termination of a billboard and associated property rightsthrough:(a) gift;(b)  purchase;(c)  agreement;(d)  exchange; or(e)  eminent domain.(2)  A termination under Subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) requires the voluntary consent ofthe billboard owner.    17-27-409.(1)  A county may only require termination of a billboard and associated property rightsthrough:(a) gift;(b)  purchase;(c)  agreement;(d)  exchange; or(e)  eminent domain.(2)  A termination under Subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) requires the voluntary consent ofthe billboard owner.outdoor advertising shall be continued as a standardized mediumof communication throughout the state so that it is preserved and can continue to provide generalIt is the purpose of this act to provide a statutory basis for the reasonable regulation ofoutdoor advertising consistent with the customary use, zoning principles and standards, theprotection of private property rights, and the public policy relating to areas adjacent to the interstate,federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, and the national highway systemshighways.,, federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, and nationalhighwaysthe, subject to subsequent amendmentssolePropertythat is rezoned by comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations is rebuttably presumed tohave not been zoned for the sole purpose of allowing outdoor advertising.(8)  "Federal aid primary highway and national highway systems highways" means thatportion of connected main highways located within this state officially designated by the departmentand approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation under Title 23, United States Code.(9)(10)(11)excluding,, or feeder systems,(12)(13)(14)safe and(15), including auxiliary lanes,acceleration lanes, deacceleration lanes, and feeder systems,For a divided highway, there is a separate main-traveled way for the traffic ineach direction.(16)(17)(18)(19)advertisingor outdoor structure usedin combination with an outdoor advertising sign or outdoor sign(20)350.(21)  "Outdoor advertising structure" or "outdoor structure" means any sign structure,including any necessary devices, supports, appurtenances, and lighting that is part of or supports anoutdoor sign.(22)  "Point of widening" means the point of the gore or the point where the intersecting lanebegins to parallel the other lanes of traffic, but the point of widening may never be greater than 2,640feet from the center line of the intersecting highway of the interchange or intersection at grade.(23)  "Relocation" includes the removal of a sign from one situs together with the erectionof a new sign upon another situs in a commercial or industrial zoned area as a substitute.(24)  "Relocation and replacement" means allowing all outdoor advertising signs or permitsthe right to maintain outdoor advertising along the interstate, federal aid primary highway existingas of June 1, 1991, and national highway system highways to be maintained in a commercial orindustrial zoned area to accommodate the displacement, remodeling, or widening of the highwaysystems.(25)  "Remodel" means the upgrading, changing, alteration, refurbishment, modification, orcomplete substitution of a new outdoor advertising structure for one permitted pursuant to this actand that is located in a commercial or industrial area.(26)(27)(28)(29)(30)(1)Except as provided in Subsection (2), amaynot,the maximum allowed square footageTwo or more advertising messages on a sign face and double-facedstacked, side-by-side,(d)  A changeable message sign is permitted if the interval between message changes is notmore frequent than at least eight seconds and the actual message rotation process is accomplishedin three seconds or less.(2) (a)  An outdoor sign structure located inside the unincorporated area of a non-urbanizedcounty may have the maximum height allowed by the county for outdoor advertising structures inthe commercial or industrial zone in which the sign is located.  If no maximum height is providedfor the location, the maximum sign height may be 65 feet above the ground or 25 feet above thegrade of the main traveled way, whichever is greater.(b)  An outdoor sign structure located inside an incorporated municipality or urbanizedcounty may have the maximum height allowed by the municipality or urbanized county for outdooradvertising structures in the commercial or industrial zone in which the sign is located.  If nomaximum height is provided for the location, the maximum sign height may be 65 feet above theground or 25 feet above the grade of the main traveled way, whichever is greater.(3)  Except as provided in Section 27-12-136.10:may(A)(B)  Interchange and intersection distance limitations shall be measured separately for eachdirection of travel.  A measurement for each direction of travel may not control or affect any otherdirection of travel.or(B)  the sign is replacing an existing outdoor advertising use or structure which is beingremoved or displaced to accommodate the widening, construction, or reconstruction of an interstate,federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, or national highway system highway, andit is located in a commercial or industrial zoned area inside an urbanized county or an incorporatedmunicipality.,,(4)(3)(3)(1)(a)(b)(c)(d)(2)  In addition to all other statutory notice requirements:(a)  the department shall give reasonably timely written notice to all outdoor advertisingpermit holders of any changes or proposed changes in administrative rules made under authority ofthe Utah Outdoor Advertising Act; and(b)  any county, municipality, or governmental entity shall, upon written request, givereasonably timely written notice to all outdoor advertising permit holders within its jurisdiction ofany change or proposed change to the outdoor or off-premise advertising provisions of its zoningprovisions, codes, or ordinances.is valid for a period of up to fiveyears and shall expire onthe fifthof the permit, or upon the expiration ortermination of the right to use the property, whichever is soonerUpon renewal, eachperiodsup to five yearsstructureafter delivery by thedepartment to the permit holder, or within 30 daysof the sign structure(c)  Construction of the sign structure shall begin within 180 days after delivery of the permitby the department to the permit holder and construction shall be completed within 365 days afterdelivery of the permit.(6)  The department may not accept any applications for a permit or issue any permit to erector maintain outdoor advertising within 500 feet of a permitted sign location except to the permitholder or the permit holder's assigns until the permit has expired or has been terminated pursuantto the procedures under Section 27-12-136.9.(7)  Permits are transferrable if the ownership of the permitted sign is transferred.(8)  Conforming, permitted sign structures may be altered, changed, remodeled, and relocatedsubject to the provisions of Subsection (6).act(1)(2)  Any existing outdoor advertising structure that does not comply with Section27-12-136.5, but that is located in an industrial and commercial area, an unzoned industrial andcommercial area, or an area where outdoor advertising would otherwise be permitted, may beremodeled and relocated on the same property in a commercial or industrial zoned area, or anotherarea where outdoor advertising would otherwise be permitted under this act.(1)  As used in this section, "nonconforming sign" means a sign that has been erected in azone or area other than commercial or industrial or where outdoor advertising is not permitted underthis act.(2) (a)maythe outdoor advertising(b),the(c), Eminent Domain(3) (a)(b)(c)(4)  Except as specifically provided in Section 27-12-136.11 or27-12-136.14,may not(5)this section be(6) (a)  If any outdoor advertising use, structure, or permit may not be continued because ofthe widening, construction, or reconstruction along an interstate, federal aid primary highwayexisting as of June 1, 1991, or national highway systems highway, the owner shall have the optionto relocate and remodel the use, structure, or permit to another location:(i)  on the same property;(ii)  on adjacent property;(iii)  on the same highway within 5280 feet of the previous location, which may be extended5280 feet outside the areas described in Subsection 27-12-136.5 (3)(c)(i)(A), on either side of thesame highway; or(iv)  mutually agreed upon by the owner and the county or municipality in which the use,structure, or permit is located.(b)  The relocation under Subsection (a) shall be in a commercial or industrial zoned area orwhere outdoor advertising is permitted under this act.(c)  The county or municipality in which the use or structure is located shall, if necessary,provide for the relocation and remodeling by ordinance for a special exception to its zoningordinance.(d)  The relocated and remodeled use or structure may be:(i)  erected to a height and angle to make it clearly visible to traffic on the main-traveled wayof the highway to which it is relocated or remodeled;(ii)  the same size and at least the same height as the previous use or structure, but therelocated use or structure may not exceed the size and height permitted under this act;(iii)  relocated to a comparable vehicular traffic count.(7) (a)  The governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, or public utility that causes theneed for the outdoor advertising relocation or remodeling as provided in Subsection (6)(a) shall paythe costs related to the relocation, remodeling, or acquisition.(b)  If a governmental entity prohibits the relocation and remodeling as provided inSubsection (6)(a), it shall pay just compensation as provided in Subsection (3).    27-12-136.14.(1)  If any outdoor advertising use or structure may not be continued because of the widening,construction, or reconstruction along a state highway, the owner shall have the option to relocate andremodel the use or structure to another location:(a)  on the same property;(b)  on adjacent property;(c)  within 2640 feet of the previous location on either side of the same highway; or(d)  mutually agreed upon by the owner and the county or municipality in which the use,structure, or permit is located.(2)  The relocation under Subsection (1) shall be in a commercial or industrial zoned area orwhere outdoor advertising is permitted under this act.(3)  The county or municipality in which the use or structure is located shall, if necessary,provide for the relocation and remodeling by ordinance for a special exception to its zoningordinance.(4)  The relocated and remodeled use or structure may be:(a)  erected to a height and angle to make it clearly visible to traffic on the main-traveled wayof the highway to which it is relocated or remodeled;(b)  the same size and at least the same height as the previous use or structure, but therelocated use or structure may not exceed the size and height permitted under this act;(c)  relocated to a comparable vehicular traffic count.(5) (a)  The governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, or public utility that causes theneed for the outdoor advertising relocation or remodeling as provided in Subsection (1) shall pay thecosts related to the relocation, remodeling, or acquisition.(b)  If a governmental entity prohibits the relocation and remodeling as provided inSubsection (1)(a), (b), or (c), it shall pay just compensation as provided in Subsection27-12-136.11(3).    27-12-136.15.(1)  As used in this section, "landscape control" means trimming or removal of seedlings,saplings, trees and vegetation along the interstate, federal aid primary highway existing as of June1, 1991, and national highway system right-of-way to provide clear visibility of outdoor advertising.(2) (a)  The department shall establish a landscape control program as provided under thissection.(b)  Except as provided in this section, a person, including an outdoor advertising sign owneror business owner may not perform or cause landscape control to be performed.(3) (a)  An outdoor advertising sign owner or business owner may submit a request forlandscape control to the department.(b)  Within 60 days of the request under Subsection (3)(a), the department shall:(i)  conduct a field review of the request with a representative of the sign or business owner,the department, and the Federal Highway Administration to consider the following issues listed intheir order of priority:(A)  safety;(B)  protection of highway features, including right-of-way and landscaping;(C)  aesthetics; and(D)  motorists' view of the sign or business; and(ii)  notify the sign or business owner what, if any, trimming, removal, restoration, banking,or other landscape control shall be allowed as decided by the department, after consultation with theFederal Highway Administration.(c)  If the sign or business owner elects to proceed, in accordance with the decision issuedunder Subsection (3)(c), the department shall issue a permit that describes what landscape controlmay be allowed, assigns responsibility for costs, describes the safety measures to be observed, andattaches any explanatory plans or other information.(4)  The department shall establish an appeals process within the department for landscapecontrol decisions made under Subsection (3).(5) (a)  A person who performs landscape control in violation of this section is guilty of aclass C misdemeanor, and is liable to the owner for treble the amount of damages sustained to thelandscape.(b)  Each permit issued under this section shall notify the permit holder of the penalties underSubsection (5)(a).    27-12-136.16.(1)  As used in this section, "Utah-Federal Agreement" means the agreement relating tooutdoor advertising that is described under Section 27-12-136.2, and it includes any modificationsto the agreement that are signed on behalf of both the state and the United States Secretary ofTransportation.(2)  The provisions of this act are subject to and shall be superseded by conflicting provisionsof the Utah-Federal Agreement.(3)  If any provision of this act or its application to any person or circumstance is found tobe unconstitutional, or in conflict with or superseded by the Utah-Federal Agreement, the remainderof this act and the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affectedby it.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0014.ZIP 28,530 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 14 Enrolled








 
    OUTDOOR ADVERTISING AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: L.  Alma Mansell


    AN ACT RELATING TO HIGHWAYS; AMENDING THE REGULATION OF OUTDOOR

    ADVERTISING; LIMITING THE AUTHORITY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

    RELATING TO OUTDOOR ADVERTISING USES; AMENDING DEFINITIONS;

    PROVIDING FOR THE RELOCATION OF CERTAIN OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; 

    REQUIRING THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO ESTABLISH A

    LANDSCAPE CONTROL PROGRAM RELATED TO OUTDOOR ADVERTISING;

    AND MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         27-12-136.2, as last amended by Chapter 61, Laws of Utah 1971

         27-12-136.3, as last amended by Chapter 12, Laws of Utah 1994

         27-12-136.5, as last amended by Chapter 137, Laws of Utah 1991

         27-12-136.6, as last amended by Chapter 120, Laws of Utah 1994

         27-12-136.7, as last amended by Chapter 120, Laws of Utah 1994

         27-12-136.9, as last amended by Chapter 300, Laws of Utah 1990

         27-12-136.10, as last amended by Chapter 30, Laws of Utah 1992

         27-12-136.11, as last amended by Chapter 30, Laws of Utah 1992

    ENACTS:

         10-9-409, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         17-27-408, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         27-12-136.14, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         27-12-136.15, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         27-12-136.16, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  10-9-409 is enacted to read:


         10-9-409.   Existing outdoor advertising uses.

        (1)  A municipality may only require termination of a billboard and associated property rights

    through:

        (a) gift;

        (b)  purchase;

        (c)  agreement;

        (d)  exchange; or

        (e)  eminent domain.

        (2)  A termination under Subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) requires the voluntary consent of

    the billboard owner.

        Section 2.  Section  17-27-409 is enacted to read:

         17-27-409.   Existing outdoor advertising uses.

        (1)  A county may only require termination of a billboard and associated property rights

    through:

        (a) gift;

        (b)  purchase;

        (c)  agreement;

        (d)  exchange; or

        (e)  eminent domain.

        (2)  A termination under Subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), or (d) requires the voluntary consent of

    the billboard owner.

        Section 3.  Section  27-12-136.2 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.2.  Purpose of act -- Utah-Federal Agreements ratified.

        The purpose of this act is to provide the statutory basis for the regulation of outdoor

    advertising consistent with zoning principles and standards and the public policy of this state in

    providing public safety, health, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of public travel, to protect the

    public investment in [such] highways, to preserve the natural scenic beauty of lands bordering on

    [such] highways, and to ensure that outdoor advertising shall be continued as a standardized medium

- 2 -


    of communication throughout the state so that it is preserved and can continue to provide general

    information in the specific interest of the traveling public [is presented] safely and effectively.

        It is the purpose of this act to provide a statutory basis for the reasonable regulation of

    outdoor advertising consistent with the customary use, zoning principles and standards, the

    protection of private property rights, and the public policy relating to areas adjacent to the interstate,

    federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, and the national highway systems

    highways.

        The agreement entered into between the governor of the state of Utah and the Secretary of

    Transportation of the United States dated January 18, 1968, regarding the size, lighting, and spacing

    of outdoor advertising which may be erected and maintained within areas adjacent to the interstate

    [and primary], federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, and national highway

    systems highways which are zoned commercial or industrial or in [such] other unzoned commercial

    or industrial areas as defined pursuant to the terms of [such] the agreement is hereby ratified and

    approved, subject to subsequent amendments.

        Section 4.  Section  27-12-136.3 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.3.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Commercial or industrial activities" means those activities generally recognized as

    commercial or industrial by zoning authorities in this state, except that none of the following are

    commercial or industrial activities:

        (a)  agricultural, forestry, grazing, farming, and related activities, including wayside fresh

    produce stands;

        (b)  transient or temporary activities;

        (c)  activities not visible from the main-traveled way;

        (d)  activities conducted in a building principally used as a residence; and

        (e)  railroad tracks and minor sidings.

        (2)  "Commercial or industrial zone" means only:

        (a)  those areas within the boundaries of cities or towns that are used or reserved for business,

- 3 -


    commerce, or trade, or zoned as a highway service zone, under enabling state legislation or

    comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations;

        (b)  those areas within the boundaries of urbanized counties that are used or reserved for

    business, commerce, or trade, or zoned as a highway service zone, under enabling state legislation

    or comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations;

        (c)  those areas outside the boundaries of urbanized counties and outside the boundaries of

    cities and towns that:

        (i)  are used or reserved for business, commerce, or trade, or zoned as a highway service

    zone, under comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations or enabling state legislation; and

        (ii)  are within 8420 feet of an interstate highway exit, off-ramp, or turnoff as measured from

    the nearest point of the beginning or ending of the pavement widening at the exit from or entrance

    to the main-traveled way; or

        (d)  those areas outside the boundaries of urbanized counties and outside the boundaries of

    cities and towns and not within 8420 feet of an interstate highway exit, off-ramp, or turnoff as

    measured from the nearest point of the beginning or ending of the pavement widening at the exit

    from or entrance to the main-traveled way that are reserved for business, commerce, or trade under

    enabling state legislation or comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations, and are actually

    used for commercial or industrial purposes.

        (3)  "Commercial or industrial zone" does not mean areas zoned for the [primary] sole

    purpose of allowing outdoor advertising.

        (4)  "Comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations" means a municipality's

    comprehensive plan required by Section 10-9-301, the municipal zoning plan authorized by Section

    10-9-401, and the county master plan authorized by Sections 17-27-301 and 17-27-401.  Property

    that is rezoned by comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations is rebuttably presumed to

    have not been zoned for the sole purpose of allowing outdoor advertising.

        (5)  "Department" means the Department of Transportation.

        (6)  "Directional signs" means signs containing information about public places owned or

    operated by federal, state, or local governments or their agencies, publicly or privately owned natural

- 4 -


    phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, or religious sites, and areas of natural scenic

    beauty or naturally suited for outdoor recreation, that the department considers to be in the interest

    of the traveling public.

        (7) (a)  "Erect" means to construct, build, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, create, paint,

    draw, or in any other way bring into being.

        (b)  "Erect" does not include any activities defined in Subsection (a) if they are performed

    incident to the change of an advertising message or customary maintenance of a sign.

        (8)  "Federal aid primary highway and national highway systems highways" means that

    portion of connected main highways located within this state officially designated by the department

    and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation under Title 23, United States Code.

        [(8)] (9)  "Highway service zone" means a highway service area where the primary use of

    the land is used or reserved for commercial and roadside services other than outdoor advertising to

    serve the traveling public.

        [(9)] (10)  "Information center" means an area or site established and maintained at rest areas

    for the purpose of informing the public of:

        (a)  places of interest within the state; or

        (b)  any other information that the department considers desirable.

        [(10)] (11)  "Interchange or intersection" means those areas and their approaches where

    traffic is channeled off or onto an interstate route, [including] excluding the deacceleration lanes [or],

    acceleration lanes, or feeder systems, from or to another federal, state, county, city, or other route.

        [(11)] (12)  "Interstate system" means that portion of the national defense system of interstate

    and defense highways located within this state officially designated by the department and approved

    by the United States Secretary of Transportation under Title 23, United States Code.

        [(12)] (13)  "Maintain" means to allow to exist, subject to the provisions of this chapter.

        [(13)] (14)  "Maintenance" means to repair, refurbish, repaint, or otherwise keep an existing

    sign structure safe and in a state suitable for use, including signs destroyed by vandalism or an act

    of God.

        [(14)] (15)  "Main-traveled way" means the through traffic lanes, including auxiliary lanes,

- 5 -


    acceleration lanes, deacceleration lanes, and feeder systems, exclusive of frontage roads[, auxiliary

    lanes,] and ramps.  For a divided highway, there is a separate main-traveled way for the traffic in

    each direction.

        [(15)] (16)  "Official signs and notices" means signs and notices erected and maintained by

    public agencies within their territorial or zoning jurisdictions for the purpose of carrying out official

    duties or responsibilities in accordance with direction or authorization contained in federal, state, or

    local law.

        [(16)] (17)  "Off-premise signs" means signs located in areas zoned industrial, commercial,

    or H-1 and in areas determined by the department to be unzoned industrial or commercial.

        [(17)] (18)  "On-premise signs" means signs used to advertise the major activities conducted

    on the property where the sign is located.

        [(18)] (19)  "Outdoor advertising" [or "outdoor signs" or "sign"] means any outdoor

    advertising structure[,] [display, light device, figure, painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster,

    billboard, or other thing designed, intended, or used to advertise or inform] or outdoor structure used

    in combination with an outdoor advertising sign or outdoor sign.

        [(19) (a)] (20)  "Outdoor advertising corridor" means[: (i)] a strip of land [100] 350 feet wide,

    measured perpendicular from the edge of a controlled highway right-of-way[; or].

        [(ii)  where there is a natural or created usage consisting of a frontage road, city street, county

    road, controlled or not controlled service road, railroad track, utility easement, or water course

    running parallel or approximately parallel and contiguous to the controlled highway, the width of

    the corridor shall extend further to a line 100 feet from the edge of the usage.]

        [(b)  The width of the outdoor advertising corridor may not exceed 350 feet measured from

    the edge of the controlled highway right-of-way.]

        (21)  "Outdoor advertising structure" or "outdoor structure" means any sign structure,

    including any necessary devices, supports, appurtenances, and lighting that is part of or supports an

    outdoor sign.

        (22)  "Point of widening" means the point of the gore or the point where the intersecting lane

    begins to parallel the other lanes of traffic, but the point of widening may never be greater than 2,640

- 6 -


    feet from the center line of the intersecting highway of the interchange or intersection at grade.

        [(20)  "Primary system" means that portion of connected main highways located within this

    state officially designated by the department and approved by the United States Secretary of

    Transportation under Title 23, United States Code.]

        (23)  "Relocation" includes the removal of a sign from one situs together with the erection

    of a new sign upon another situs in a commercial or industrial zoned area as a substitute.

        (24)  "Relocation and replacement" means allowing all outdoor advertising signs or permits

    the right to maintain outdoor advertising along the interstate, federal aid primary highway existing

    as of June 1, 1991, and national highway system highways to be maintained in a commercial or

    industrial zoned area to accommodate the displacement, remodeling, or widening of the highway

    systems.

        (25)  "Remodel" means the upgrading, changing, alteration, refurbishment, modification, or

    complete substitution of a new outdoor advertising structure for one permitted pursuant to this act

    and that is located in a commercial or industrial area.

        [(21)] (26)  "Rest area" means an area or site established and maintained within or adjacent

    to the right-of-way by or under public supervision or control for the convenience of the traveling

    public.

        [(22)] (27)  "Scenic or natural area" means an area determined by the department to have

    aesthetic value.

        [(23)] (28)  "Traveled way" means that portion of the roadway used for the movement of

    vehicles, exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.

        [(24)] (29) (a)  "Unzoned commercial or industrial area" means:

        (i)  those areas not zoned by state law or local law, regulation, or ordinance that are occupied

    by one or more industrial or commercial activities other than outdoor advertising signs;

        (ii)  the lands along the highway for a distance of 600 feet immediately adjacent to those

    activities; and

        (iii)  lands covering the same dimensions that are directly opposite those activities on the

    other side of the highway, if the department determines that those lands on the opposite side of the

- 7 -


    highway do not have scenic or aesthetic value.

        (b)  In measuring the scope of the unzoned commercial or industrial area, all measurements

    shall be made from the outer edge of the regularly used buildings, parking lots, storage, or processing

    areas of the activities and shall be along or parallel to the edge of pavement of the highway.

        (c)  All signs located within an unzoned commercial or industrial area become

    nonconforming if the commercial or industrial activity used in defining the area ceases for a

    continuous period of 12 months.

        [(25)] (30)  "Urbanized county" means a county with a population of at least 125,000

    persons.

        Section 5.  Section  27-12-136.5 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.5.  Sign size -- Sign spacing -- Location in outdoor advertising corridor --

     Limit on implementation.

        [(1)  Sign size:]

        (1)  (a)  [No] Except as provided in Subsection (2), a sign face within the state [shall] may

    not exceed the following limits:

        (i)  maximum area - 1,000 square feet;

        (ii)  maximum length - 60 feet; and

        (iii)  maximum height - 25 feet.

        (b)  No more than two facings visible and readable from the same direction on the

    main-traveled way may be erected on any one sign structure.  Whenever two facings are so

    positioned, neither shall exceed [325 square feet] the maximum allowed square footage.

        (c)  [Double-faced] Two or more advertising messages on a sign face and double-faced,

    back-to-back, stacked, side-by-side, and V-type signs are permitted as a single sign or structure if

    both faces enjoy common ownership.

        (d)  A changeable message sign is permitted if the interval between message changes is not

    more frequent than at least eight seconds and the actual message rotation process is accomplished

    in three seconds or less.

        [(2)  Sign spacing:]

- 8 -


        (2) (a)  An outdoor sign structure located inside the unincorporated area of a non-urbanized

    county may have the maximum height allowed by the county for outdoor advertising structures in

    the commercial or industrial zone in which the sign is located.  If no maximum height is provided

    for the location, the maximum sign height may be 65 feet above the ground or 25 feet above the

    grade of the main traveled way, whichever is greater.

        (b)  An outdoor sign structure located inside an incorporated municipality or urbanized

    county may have the maximum height allowed by the municipality or urbanized county for outdoor

    advertising structures in the commercial or industrial zone in which the sign is located.  If no

    maximum height is provided for the location, the maximum sign height may be 65 feet above the

    ground or 25 feet above the grade of the main traveled way, whichever is greater.

        (3)  Except as provided in Section 27-12-136.10:

        (a)  Any sign allowed to be erected by reason of the exceptions set forth in Subsection

    27-12-136.4(1) or in H-1 zones [shall] may not be closer than 500 feet to an existing off-premise

    sign adjacent to an interstate highway or limited access primary highway, except that signs may be

    erected closer than 500 feet if the signs on the same side of the interstate highway or limited access

    primary highway are not simultaneously visible.

        (b)  Signs may not be located within 500 feet of any of the following which are adjacent to

    the highway, unless the signs are in an incorporated area:

        (i)  public parks;

        (ii)  public forests;

        (iii)  public playgrounds;

        (iv)  areas designated as scenic areas by the department or other state agency having and

    exercising this authority; or

        (v)  cemeteries.

        (c) (i) (A)  Except under Subsection (ii), signs may not be located on an interstate highway

    or limited access highway on the primary system within 500 feet of an interchange, or intersection

    at grade, or rest area measured along the interstate highway or freeway from the sign to the nearest

    point of the beginning or ending of pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the

- 9 -


    main-traveled way.

        (B)  Interchange and intersection distance limitations shall be measured separately for each

    direction of travel.  A measurement for each direction of travel may not control or affect any other

    direction of travel.

        (ii)  A sign may be placed closer than 500 feet from the nearest point of the beginning or

    ending of pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main-traveled way, if:

        (A)  the sign is at least 500 feet but not more than 2,640 feet from the nearest point of the

    intersecting highway of the interchange; [and] or

        [(B)  the section of interstate highway or freeway was opened for use by the traveling public

    on or after September 1, 1987.]

        (B)  the sign is replacing an existing outdoor advertising use or structure which is being

    removed or displaced to accommodate the widening, construction, or reconstruction of an interstate,

    federal aid primary highway existing as of June 1, 1991, or national highway system highway, and

    it is located in a commercial or industrial zoned area inside an urbanized county or an incorporated

    municipality.

        (d)  The location of signs situated on nonlimited access primary highways in commercial,

    industrial, or H-1 zoned areas between streets, roads, or highways entering the primary highway shall

    not exceed the following minimum spacing criteria:

        (i)  Where the distance between centerlines of intersecting streets, roads, or highways is less

    than 1,000 feet, a minimum spacing between structures of 150 feet may be permitted between the

    intersecting streets or highways.

        (ii)  Where the distance between centerlines of intersecting streets, roads, or highways is

    1,000 feet or more, minimum spacing between sign structures shall be 300 feet.

        (e)  All outdoor advertising shall be erected and maintained within the outdoor advertising

    corridor.

        [(3)] (4)  Subsection [(2)](3)(c)(ii) may not be implemented until:

        (a)  the Utah-Federal Agreement for carrying out national policy relative to control of

    outdoor advertising in areas adjacent to the national system of interstate and defense highways and

- 10 -


    the federal-aid primary system is modified to allow the sign placement specified in Subsection

    [(2)](3)(c)(ii); and

        (b)  the modified agreement under Subsection (a) is signed on behalf of both the state and

    the United States Secretary of Transportation. 

        Section 6.  Section  27-12-136.6 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.6.  Advertising -- Regulatory power of department -- Notice requirements.

        (1)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the

    department may make rules no more restrictive than this chapter to:

        [(1)] (a)  control the erection and maintenance of outdoor advertising along the interstate and

    primary highway systems;

        [(2)] (b)  provide for enforcement of this chapter;

        [(3)] (c)  establish the form, content, and submittal of applications to erect outdoor

    advertising; and

        [(4)] (d)  establish administrative procedures.

        (2)  In addition to all other statutory notice requirements:

        (a)  the department shall give reasonably timely written notice to all outdoor advertising

    permit holders of any changes or proposed changes in administrative rules made under authority of

    the Utah Outdoor Advertising Act; and

        (b)  any county, municipality, or governmental entity shall, upon written request, give

    reasonably timely written notice to all outdoor advertising permit holders within its jurisdiction of

    any change or proposed change to the outdoor or off-premise advertising provisions of its zoning

    provisions, codes, or ordinances.

        Section 7.  Section  27-12-136.7 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.7.  Advertising -- Permits -- Application requirements -- Duration -- Fees.

        (1) (a)  Outdoor advertising may not be maintained without a current permit.

        (b)  Applications for permits shall be made to the department on forms furnished by it.

        (c)  A permit must be obtained prior to installing each outdoor sign.

        (d)  The application for a permit shall be accompanied by an initial fee established under

- 11 -


    Section 63-38-3.2.

        (2) (a)  Each permit issued by the department [expires on] is valid for a period of up to five

    years and shall expire on June 30 of [each] the fifth year of the permit, or upon the expiration or

    termination of the right to use the property, whichever is sooner.

        (b)  [Each] Upon renewal, each permit may be renewed for [a period] periods of [one year]

    up to five years upon the filing of a renewal application and payment of a renewal fee established

    under Section 63-38-3.2.

        (3)  Sign owners residing outside the state shall provide the department with a continuous

    performance bond in the amount of $2,500.

        (4)  Fees may not be prorated for fractions of the permit period. Advertising copy may be

    changed at any time without payment of an additional fee.

        (5) (a)  Each sign shall have its permit continuously affixed to the sign in a position visible

    from the nearest traveled portion of the highway.

        (b)  The permit shall be affixed to the sign structure within 30 days after delivery by the

    department to the permit holder, or within 30 days of the installation date of the sign structure.

        (c)  Construction of the sign structure shall begin within 180 days after delivery of the permit

    by the department to the permit holder and construction shall be completed within 365 days after

    delivery of the permit.

        (6)  The department may not accept any applications for a permit or issue any permit to erect

    or maintain outdoor advertising within 500 feet of a permitted sign location except to the permit

    holder or the permit holder's assigns until the permit has expired or has been terminated pursuant

    to the procedures under Section 27-12-136.9.

        (7)  Permits are transferrable if the ownership of the permitted sign is transferred.

        (8)  Conforming, permitted sign structures may be altered, changed, remodeled, and relocated

    subject to the provisions of Subsection (6).

        Section 8.  Section  27-12-136.9 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.9.  Unlawful outdoor advertising -- Adjudicative proceedings -- Judicial

     review -- Costs of removal -- Civil and criminal liability for damaging regulated signs --

- 12 -


     Immunity for Department of Transportation.

        (1)  Outdoor advertising is unlawful when:

        (a)  erected after May 9, 1967, contrary to the provisions of this chapter;

        (b)  a permit is not obtained as required by this chapter;

        (c)  a false or misleading statement has been made in the application for a permit that was

    material to obtaining the permit; or

        (d)  the sign for which a permit was issued is not in a reasonable state of repair, is unsafe, or

    is otherwise in violation of this chapter.

        (2)  The establishment, operation, repair, maintenance, or alteration of any sign contrary to

    this chapter is also a public nuisance.

        (3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), in its enforcement of this section, the Department

    of Transportation shall comply with the procedures and requirements of Title 63, Chapter 46b, [the]

    Administrative Procedures Act.

        (4) (a)  The district courts shall have jurisdiction to review by trial de novo all final orders

    of the Department of Transportation under this [section] act resulting from formal and informal

    adjudicative proceedings.

        (b)  Venue for judicial review of final orders of the Department of Transportation shall be

    in the county in which the sign is located.

        (5)  If the Department of Transportation is granted a judgment, the Department of

    Transportation is entitled to have any nuisance abated and recover from the responsible person, firm,

    or corporation, jointly and severally:

        (a)  the costs and expenses incurred in removing the sign; and

        (b)  $10 for each day the sign was maintained following the expiration of ten days after notice

    of agency action was filed and served under Section 63-46b-3.

        (6) (a)  Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation who vandalizes, damages, defaces,

    destroys, or uses any sign controlled under this chapter without the owner's permission is liable to

    the owner of the sign for treble the amount of damage sustained and all costs of court, including a

    reasonable attorney's fee, and is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.

- 13 -


        (b)  This subsection does not apply to the department, its agents, or employees if acting to

    enforce this chapter.

        Section 9.  Section  27-12-136.10 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.10.  Existing outdoor advertising not in conformity with act -- When removal

     required -- When relocation allowed.

        (1)  Any outdoor advertising lawfully in existence along the interstate or the primary systems

    on the effective date of this act and which is not then in conformity with its provisions is not required

    to be removed until five years after it becomes nonconforming or pursuant to the provisions of

    Section 27-12-136.11.

        (2)  Any existing outdoor advertising structure that does not comply with Section

    27-12-136.5, but that is located in an industrial and commercial area, an unzoned industrial and

    commercial area, or an area where outdoor advertising would otherwise be permitted, may be

    remodeled and relocated on the same property in a commercial or industrial zoned area, or another

    area where outdoor advertising would otherwise be permitted under this act.

        Section 10.  Section  27-12-136.11 is amended to read:

         27-12-136.11.  Existing outdoor advertising not in conformity with act -- Procedure --

     Eminent domain -- Compensation -- Relocation.

        (1)  As used in this section, "nonconforming sign" means a sign that has been erected in a

    zone or area other than commercial or industrial or where outdoor advertising is not permitted under

    this act.

        [(1)] (2) (a)  The department [is hereby empowered and authorized to] may acquire by gift,

    purchase, agreement, exchange, or eminent domain, any existing outdoor advertising and all property

    rights pertaining to [same] the outdoor advertising which were lawfully in existence on May 9, 1967,

    and which by reason of this chapter become nonconforming.

        (b)  If the department, or any town, city, county, governmental entity, public utility, or any

    agency or the United States Department of Transportation under this chapter, prevents the

    maintenance as defined in Section 27-12-136.3 [or], requires that maintenance of an existing sign

    be discontinued, the sign in question shall be considered acquired by [such] the entity and just

- 14 -


    compensation will become immediately due and payable.

        (c)  Eminent domain shall be exercised in accordance with the provision of Title 78, Chapter

    34, Eminent Domain.

        [(2)] (3) (a)  Just compensation shall be paid for outdoor advertising and all property rights

    pertaining to the same, including the right of the landowner upon whose land a sign is located,

    acquired through the processes of eminent domain.

        (b)  For the purposes of this act, just compensation shall include the consideration of damages

    to remaining properties, contiguous and noncontiguous, of an outdoor advertising sign company's

    interest, which remaining properties, together with the properties actually condemned, constituted

    an economic unit.

        (c)  The department is empowered to remove signs found in violation of Section 27-12-136.9

    without payment of any compensation.

        [(3) Nothing in] (4)  Except as specifically provided in Section 27-12-136.11 or

    27-12-136.14, this chapter [shall] may not be construed to permit a person to place or maintain any

    outdoor advertising adjacent to any interstate or primary highway system which is prohibited by law

    or by any town, city, or county ordinance.  Any town, city, county, governmental entity, or public

    utility which requires the removal, relocation, alteration, change, or termination of outdoor

    advertising shall pay just compensation as defined in this chapter and in Title 78, Chapter 34.

        (5)  Except as provided in Section 27-12-136.9, no sign shall be required to be removed by

    the department nor sign maintenance as described in [Section 27-12-136.11] this section be

    discontinued unless at the time of removal or discontinuance there are sufficient funds, from

    whatever source, appropriated and immediately available to pay the just compensation required

    under this section and unless at that time the federal funds required to be contributed under Section

    131 of Title 23, United States Code, if any, with respect to the outdoor advertising being removed,

    have been appropriated and are immediately available to this state.

        (6) (a)  If any outdoor advertising use, structure, or permit may not be continued because of

    the widening, construction, or reconstruction along an interstate, federal aid primary highway

    existing as of June 1, 1991, or national highway systems highway, the owner shall have the option

- 15 -


    to relocate and remodel the use, structure, or permit to another location:

        (i)  on the same property;

        (ii)  on adjacent property;

        (iii)  on the same highway within 5280 feet of the previous location, which may be extended

    5280 feet outside the areas described in Subsection 27-12-136.5 (3)(c)(i)(A), on either side of the

    same highway; or

        (iv)  mutually agreed upon by the owner and the county or municipality in which the use,

    structure, or permit is located.

        (b)  The relocation under Subsection (a) shall be in a commercial or industrial zoned area or

    where outdoor advertising is permitted under this act.

        (c)  The county or municipality in which the use or structure is located shall, if necessary,

    provide for the relocation and remodeling by ordinance for a special exception to its zoning

    ordinance.

        (d)  The relocated and remodeled use or structure may be:

        (i)  erected to a height and angle to make it clearly visible to traffic on the main-traveled way

    of the highway to which it is relocated or remodeled;

        (ii)  the same size and at least the same height as the previous use or structure, but the

    relocated use or structure may not exceed the size and height permitted under this act;

        (iii)  relocated to a comparable vehicular traffic count.

        (7) (a)  The governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, or public utility that causes the

    need for the outdoor advertising relocation or remodeling as provided in Subsection (6)(a) shall pay

    the costs related to the relocation, remodeling, or acquisition.

        (b)  If a governmental entity prohibits the relocation and remodeling as provided in

    Subsection (6)(a), it shall pay just compensation as provided in Subsection (3).

        Section 11.  Section  27-12-136.14 is enacted to read:

         27-12-136.14.  Relocation on state highways.

        (1)  If any outdoor advertising use or structure may not be continued because of the widening,

    construction, or reconstruction along a state highway, the owner shall have the option to relocate and

- 16 -


    remodel the use or structure to another location:

        (a)  on the same property;

        (b)  on adjacent property;

        (c)  within 2640 feet of the previous location on either side of the same highway; or

        (d)  mutually agreed upon by the owner and the county or municipality in which the use,

    structure, or permit is located.

        (2)  The relocation under Subsection (1) shall be in a commercial or industrial zoned area or

    where outdoor advertising is permitted under this act.

        (3)  The county or municipality in which the use or structure is located shall, if necessary,

    provide for the relocation and remodeling by ordinance for a special exception to its zoning

    ordinance.

        (4)  The relocated and remodeled use or structure may be:

        (a)  erected to a height and angle to make it clearly visible to traffic on the main-traveled way

    of the highway to which it is relocated or remodeled;

        (b)  the same size and at least the same height as the previous use or structure, but the

    relocated use or structure may not exceed the size and height permitted under this act;

        (c)  relocated to a comparable vehicular traffic count.

        (5) (a)  The governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, or public utility that causes the

    need for the outdoor advertising relocation or remodeling as provided in Subsection (1) shall pay the

    costs related to the relocation, remodeling, or acquisition.

        (b)  If a governmental entity prohibits the relocation and remodeling as provided in

    Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c), it shall pay just compensation as provided in Subsection

    27-12-136.11(3).

        Section 12.  Section  27-12-136.15 is enacted to read:

         27-12-136.15.  Landscape control program.

        (1)  As used in this section, "landscape control" means trimming or removal of seedlings,

    saplings, trees and vegetation along the interstate, federal aid primary highway existing as of June

    1, 1991, and national highway system right-of-way to provide clear visibility of outdoor advertising.

- 17 -


        (2) (a)  The department shall establish a landscape control program as provided under this

    section.

        (b)  Except as provided in this section, a person, including an outdoor advertising sign owner

    or business owner may not perform or cause landscape control to be performed.

        (3) (a)  An outdoor advertising sign owner or business owner may submit a request for

    landscape control to the department.

        (b)  Within 60 days of the request under Subsection (3)(a), the department shall:

        (i)  conduct a field review of the request with a representative of the sign or business owner,

    the department, and the Federal Highway Administration to consider the following issues listed in

    their order of priority:

        (A)  safety;

         (B)  protection of highway features, including right-of-way and landscaping;

        (C)  aesthetics; and

        (D)  motorists' view of the sign or business; and

        (ii)  notify the sign or business owner what, if any, trimming, removal, restoration, banking,

    or other landscape control shall be allowed as decided by the department, after consultation with the

    Federal Highway Administration.

        (c)  If the sign or business owner elects to proceed, in accordance with the decision issued

    under Subsection (3)(c), the department shall issue a permit that describes what landscape control

    may be allowed, assigns responsibility for costs, describes the safety measures to be observed, and

    attaches any explanatory plans or other information.

        (4)  The department shall establish an appeals process within the department for landscape

    control decisions made under Subsection (3).

        (5) (a)  A person who performs landscape control in violation of this section is guilty of a

    class C misdemeanor, and is liable to the owner for treble the amount of damages sustained to the

    landscape.

        (b)  Each permit issued under this section shall notify the permit holder of the penalties under

    Subsection (5)(a).

- 18 -


        Section 13.  Section  27-12-136.16 is enacted to read:

         27-12-136.16.  Utah-Federal Agreement -- Severability clause.

        (1)  As used in this section, "Utah-Federal Agreement" means the agreement relating to

    outdoor advertising that is described under Section 27-12-136.2, and it includes any modifications

    to the agreement that are signed on behalf of both the state and the United States Secretary of

    Transportation.

        (2)  The provisions of this act are subject to and shall be superseded by conflicting provisions

    of the Utah-Federal Agreement.

        (3)  If any provision of this act or its application to any person or circumstance is found to

    be unconstitutional, or in conflict with or superseded by the Utah-Federal Agreement, the remainder

    of this act and the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected

    by it.

- 19 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







