Sponsors: []Modifications: (c)  a vehicle covered by a liability policy, but coverage for an accident is disputed by theliability insurer for more than 60 days or, beginning with the effective date of this act, continues tobe disputed for more than 60 days; or(d)(d)(4)(6)(9), (c),(d)If approved by two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, this act takes effect uponapproval by the governor, or the day following the constitutional time limit of Utah ConstitutionArticle VII, Section 8, without the governor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of vetooverride.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0088.ZIP 11,261 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 88 Enrolled





            

    
MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Howard A. Stephenson

            

    
Beverly Ann Evans 



            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO INSURANCE; AMENDING MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE
            

    
PROVISIONS; MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
            

    
DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     31A-22-305, as last amended by Chapter 375, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     31A-22-305.5, as enacted by Chapter 321, Laws of Utah 1990
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
31A-22-305

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-22-305.  Uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage.
            

    
    (1)  As used in this section, "covered persons" includes:
            

    
    (a)  the named insured;
            

    
    (b)  persons related to the named insured by blood, marriage, adoption, or guardianship,
            

    
who are residents of the named insured's household, including those who usually make their home
            

    
in the same household but temporarily live elsewhere;
            

    
    (c)  any person occupying or using a motor vehicle referred to in the policy or owned by
            

    
a self-insurer; and
            

    
    (d)  any person who is entitled to recover damages against the owner or operator of the
            

    
uninsured or underinsured motor vehicle because of bodily injury to or death of persons under
            

    
Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c).
            

    
    (2)  As used in this section, "uninsured motor vehicle" includes:
            

    
    (a) (i)  a vehicle, the operation, maintenance, or use of which is not covered under a
            

    
liability policy at the time of an injury-causing occurrence; or
            

    
    (ii) (A)  a vehicle covered with lower liability limits than required by Section 

31A-22-304

;

            

    
    (B)  the vehicle described in Subsection (2)(a)(ii)(A) is uninsured to the extent of the
            

    
deficiency;
            

    
    (b)  an unidentified vehicle that left the scene of an accident proximately caused by the
            

    
vehicle operator; [or]
            

    
    (c)  a vehicle covered by a liability policy, but coverage for an accident is disputed by the
            

    
liability insurer for more than 60 days or, beginning with the effective date of this act, continues to
            

    
be disputed for more than 60 days; or
            

    
    [(c)] (d) (i)  an insured vehicle if, before or after the accident, the liability insurer of the
            

    
vehicle is declared insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction;
            

    
    (ii)  the vehicle described in Subsection (2)[(c)](d)(i) is uninsured only to the extent that the
            

    
claim against the insolvent insurer is not paid by a guaranty association or fund.
            

    
    (3)  Uninsured motorist coverage under Subsection 

31A-22-302

(1)(b) provides coverage for
            

    
covered persons who are legally entitled to recover damages from owners or operators of uninsured
            

    
motor vehicles because of bodily injury, sickness, disease, or death in limits that at least equal the
            

    
minimum bodily injury limits for motor vehicle liability policies under Section 

31A-22-304

.
            

    
    (4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), the named insured may reject uninsured
            

    
motorist coverage by an express writing to the insurer that provides liability coverage under
            

    
Subsection 

31A-22-302

(1)(a).  This rejection continues for that issuer of the liability coverage until
            

    
the insured in writing requests uninsured motorist coverage from that liability insurer.
            

    
    (b)  All persons, including governmental entities, that are engaged in the business of, or that
            

    
accept payment for, transporting natural persons by motor vehicle, and all school districts that
            

    
provide transportation services for their students, shall provide coverage for all vehicles used for that
            

    
purpose, by purchase of a policy of insurance or by self-insurance, uninsured motorist coverage of
            

    
at least $25,000 per person and $500,000 per accident.
            

    
    (i)  This coverage is secondary to any other insurance covering an injured covered person.
            

    
    (ii)  This coverage does not apply to an employee, who is injured by an uninsured motorist,
            

    
whose exclusive remedy is provided by Title 34A, Chapter 2, Workers' Compensation Act.
            

    
    (c)  As used in this Subsection (4):

- 2 -

            

    
    (i)  "Governmental entity" has the same meaning as under Section 

63-30-2

.
            

    
    (ii)  "Motor vehicle" has the same meaning as under Section 

41-1a-102

.
            

    
    (5)  When a covered person alleges that an uninsured motor vehicle under Subsection (2)(b)
            

    
proximately caused an accident without touching the covered person or the vehicle occupied by the
            

    
covered person, the covered person must show the existence of the uninsured motor vehicle by clear
            

    
and convincing evidence consisting of more than the covered person's testimony.
            

    
    (6)  (a)  The limit of liability for uninsured motorist coverage for two or more motor vehicles
            

    
may not be added together, combined, or stacked to determine the limit of insurance coverage
            

    
available to an injured person for any one accident.
            

    
    (b) (i)  Subsection (6)(a) applies to all persons except a covered person as defined under
            

    
Subsection (7)(b)(ii).
            

    
    (ii)  A covered person as defined under Subsection (7)(b)(ii) is entitled to the highest limits
            

    
of uninsured motorist coverage afforded for any one vehicle that the covered person is the named
            

    
insured or an insured family member.
            

    
    (iii)  This coverage shall be in addition to the coverage on the vehicle the covered person is
            

    
occupying.
            

    
    (iv)  Neither the primary nor the secondary coverage may be set off against the other.
            

    
    (c)  Coverage on a motor vehicle occupied at the time of an accident shall be primary
            

    
coverage, and the coverage elected by a person described under Subsections (1)(a) and (b) shall be
            

    
secondary coverage.
            

    
    (7) (a)  Uninsured motorist coverage under this section applies to bodily injury, sickness,
            

    
disease, or death of covered persons while occupying or using a motor vehicle only if the motor
            

    
vehicle is described in the policy under which a claim is made, or if the motor vehicle is a newly
            

    
acquired or replacement vehicle covered under the terms of the policy.  Except as provided in
            

    
Subsection (6) or (7), a covered person injured in a vehicle described in a policy that includes
            

    
uninsured motorist benefits may not elect to collect uninsured motorist coverage benefits from any
            

    
other motor vehicle insurance policy under which he is a covered person.
            

    
    (b)  Each of the following persons may also recover uninsured motorist benefits under any

- 3 -

            

    
other policy in which they are described as a "covered person" as defined in Subsection (1):
            

    
    (i)  a covered person injured as a pedestrian by an uninsured motor vehicle; and
            

    
    (ii)  a covered person injured while occupying or using a motor vehicle that is not owned by,
            

    
furnished, or available for the regular use of the covered person, the covered person's resident
            

    
spouse, or the covered person's resident relative.
            

    
    (c)  A covered person in Subsection (7)(b) is not barred against making subsequent elections
            

    
if recovery is unavailable under previous elections.
            

    
    (8) (a)  As used in this section, "underinsured motor vehicle" includes a vehicle, the
            

    
operation, maintenance, or use of which is covered under a liability policy at the time of an
            

    
injury-causing occurrence, but which has insufficient liability coverage to compensate fully the
            

    
injured party for all special and general damages.
            

    
    (b)  The term "underinsured motor vehicle" does not include:
            

    
    (i)  a motor vehicle that is covered under the liability coverage of the same policy that also
            

    
contains the underinsured motorist coverage; or
            

    
    (ii)  an uninsured motor vehicle as defined in Subsection (2).
            

    
    (9) (a)  Underinsured motorist coverage under Subsection 

31A-22-302

(1)(c) provides
            

    
coverage for covered persons who are legally entitled to recover damages from owners or operators
            

    
of underinsured motor vehicles because of bodily injury, sickness, disease, or death in limits of at
            

    
least $10,000 for one person in any one accident, and at least $20,000 for two or more persons in any
            

    
one accident.
            

    
    (b)  The named insured's underinsured motorist coverage, as described in Subsection (9)(a),
            

    
is secondary to the liability coverage of an owner or operator of an underinsured motor vehicle, as
            

    
described in Subsection (8).  Underinsured motorist coverage may not be set off against the liability
            

    
coverage of the owner or operator of an underinsured motor vehicle, but shall be added to, combined
            

    
with, or stacked upon the liability coverage of the owner or operator of the underinsured motor
            

    
vehicle to determine the limit of coverage available to the injured person.
            

    
    (c) (i)  For new policies or contracts written after January 1, 1993, a named insured may
            

    
reject underinsured motorist coverage by an express writing to the insurer that provides liability

- 4 -

            

    
coverage under Subsection 

31A-22-302

(1)(a).  This rejection continues for that issuer of the liability
            

    
coverage until the insured in writing requests underinsured motorist coverage from that liability
            

    
insurer.
            

    
    (ii)  In conjunction with the first three renewal notices sent after January 1, 1993, for policies
            

    
existing on that date, the insurer shall notify the insured of the availability of underinsured motorist
            

    
coverage along with estimated ranges of premiums for the coverage.  The department shall provide
            

    
standard language to be used by insurers to fulfill the insurers' duty under this Subsection (9).
            

    
    (10) (a)  Underinsured motorist coverage under this section applies to bodily injury, sickness,
            

    
disease, or death of an insured while occupying or using a motor vehicle owned by, furnished, or
            

    
available for the regular use of the insured, a resident spouse, or resident relative of the insured, only
            

    
if the motor vehicle is described in the policy under which a claim is made, or if the motor vehicle
            

    
is a newly acquired or replacement vehicle covered under the terms of the policy.  Except as
            

    
provided in Subsection (10), a covered person injured in a vehicle described in a policy that includes
            

    
underinsured motorist benefits may not elect to collect underinsured motorist coverage benefits from
            

    
any other motor vehicle insurance policy under which he is a named insured.
            

    
    (b) (i)  The limit of liability for underinsured motorist coverage for two or more motor
            

    
vehicles may not be added together, combined, or stacked to determine the limit of insurance
            

    
coverage available to an injured person for any one accident.
            

    
    (ii)  Subsection (10)(b)(i) applies to all persons except a covered person as defined under
            

    
Subsection (10)(c)(i)(B).
            

    
    (iii)  Coverage on a motor vehicle occupied at the time of an accident shall be primary
            

    
coverage, and the coverage elected by a person described under Subsections (1)(a) and (b) shall be
            

    
secondary coverage.
            

    
    (c) (i)  Each of the following persons may also recover underinsured motorist coverage
            

    
benefits under any other policy in which they are described as a "covered person" as defined under
            

    
Subsection (1):
            

    
    (A)  a covered person injured as a pedestrian by an underinsured motor vehicle; or
            

    
    (B)  a covered person injured while occupying or using a motor vehicle that is not owned by,

- 5 -

            

    
furnished, or available for the regular use of the covered person, the covered person's resident
            

    
spouse, or the covered person's resident relative.
            

    
    (ii)  This coverage shall only be available as a secondary source of coverage.
            

    
    (iii)  A covered person as defined under Subsection (10)(c)(i)(B) is entitled to the highest
            

    
limits of underinsured motorist coverage afforded for any one vehicle that the covered person is the
            

    
named insured or an insured family member.
            

    
    (iv)  This coverage shall be in addition to the coverage on the vehicle the covered person is
            

    
occupying.
            

    
    (v)  Neither the primary nor the secondary coverage may be set off against the other.
            

    
    (d)  A covered injured person is not barred against making subsequent elections if recovery
            

    
is unavailable under previous elections.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
31A-22-305.5

 is amended to read:
            

    
     31A-22-305.5.  Property damage protection.
            

    
    (1)  At the request of the named insured, every motor vehicle liability policy of insurance
            

    
under Sections 

31A-22-303

 and 

31A-22-304

 or combination of policies purchased to satisfy the
            

    
owner's or operator's security requirement of Section 

41-12a-301

 which policy does not provide
            

    
insurance for collision damage shall provide coverage for property damage to the motor vehicle
            

    
described in the policy for the benefit of covered persons, as defined under Section 

31A-22-305

, who
            

    
are legally entitled to recover damages from the owner or operator of an uninsured motor vehicle,
            

    
as defined under Subsections 

31A-22-305

 (2)(a), (c), and [(c)] (d), arising out of the operation,
            

    
maintenance, or use of an uninsured motor vehicle.
            

    
    (2)  The coverage provided under this section shall include payment for loss or damage to
            

    
the motor vehicle described in the policy, not to exceed the motor vehicle's actual cash value or
            

    
$3,500, whichever is less.  Property damage does not include compensation for loss of use of the
            

    
motor vehicle.
            

    
    (3)  The coverage provided under this section shall be payable only if:
            

    
    (a)  the occurrence causing the property damage involves actual physical contact between the
            

    
covered motor vehicle and an uninsured motor vehicle;

- 6 -

            

    
    (b)  the owner, operator, or license plate number of the uninsured motor vehicle is identified;
            

    
and
            

    
    (c)  the insured or someone on his behalf reports the occurrence within ten days to the insurer
            

    
or his agent.
            

    
    (4)  The coverage provided under this section shall be subject to a $250 deductible and shall
            

    
be excess to any other insurance covering property damage to the motor vehicle described in the
            

    
policy.
            

    
    (5)  The insurer providing coverage under this section may make available additional
            

    
deductibles at appropriate premium rates.
            

    
    (6)  No rating surcharge may be applied to any policy of motor vehicle insurance issued in
            

    
this state as a result of payment of a claim made under this section. 
            

    
    Section 3.   Effective date.
            

    
    If approved by two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, this act takes effect upon
            

    
approval by the governor, or the day following the constitutional time limit of Utah Constitution
            

    
Article VII, Section 8, without the governor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of veto
            

    
override.

- 7 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







