Sponsors: []Modifications: (2)  "Clone cellular telephone" or "counterfeit cellular telephone" means a cellulartelephone whose electronic serial number has been altered from the electronic serial number thatwas programmed in the telephone by the manufacturer by someone other than the manufacturer.(3)  "Cloning paraphernalia" means materials that, when possessed in combination, arecapable of the creation of a cloned cellular telephone.  These materials include scanners tointercept the electronic serial number and mobile identification number, cellular telephones, cables,EPROM chips, EPROM burners, software for programming the cloned telephone with a falseelectronic serial number and mobile identification number combination, a computer containingsuch software, and lists of electronic serial number and mobile identification number combinations.(4)  "Electronic serial number" means the unique number that:(a)  was programmed into a cellular telephone by its manufacturer;(b)  is transmitted by the cellular telephone; and(c)  is used by cellular telephone providers to validate radio transmissions to the system ashaving been made by an authorized device.(5)  "EPROM" or "Erasable programmable read-only memory" means an integrated circuitmemory that can be programmed from an external source and erased, for reprogramming, byexposure to ultraviolet light.(6)  "Intercept" means to electronically capture, record, reveal, or otherwise access, thesignals emitted or received during the operation of a cellular telephone without the consent of thesender or receiver, by means of any instrument, device or equipment.(7)(8)  "Mobile identification number" means the cellular telephone number assigned to thecellular telephone by the cellular telephone carrier.(9)  "Possess" means to have physical possession or otherwise to exercise control overtangible property.(10)(11)(12)(13)(14):(i); or(ii)  the cloned cellular telephone was used to facilitate the commission of a felony.isisAnywhoisthird degreefelony(3)  Any person is guilty of a second degree felony who:(a)  knowingly and unlawfully possesses an instrument capable of intercepting electronicserial number and mobile identification number combinations under circumstances evidencing anintent to clone; or(b)  knowingly and unlawfully possesses cloning paraphernalia under circumstancesevidencing an intent to clone.isthird degree felonyissecondisthird degree felonyissecondFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0031.ZIP 8,584 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 31 Enrolled









     CELLULAR PHONE FRAUD




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Scott N. Howell


    AN ACT RELATING TO CRIMINAL CODE; ADDING DEFINITIONS; ADDING AND

    MODIFYING ELEMENTS OF CRIME AND PENALTIES; AND MAKING

    TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         76-6-409.5, as enacted by Chapter 215, Laws of Utah 1994

         76-6-409.6, as last amended by Chapter 291, Laws of Utah 1995

         76-6-409.7, as enacted by Chapter 215, Laws of Utah 1994

         76-6-409.8, as enacted by Chapter 215, Laws of Utah 1994

         76-6-409.9, as enacted by Chapter 215, Laws of Utah 1994

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  76-6-409.5 is amended to read:

         76-6-409.5.  Definitions.

        As used in this section and Sections 76-6-409.6 through 76-6-409.10:

        (1)  "Access device" means any telecommunication device including the telephone calling

    card number, electronic serial number, account number, mobile identification number, or personal

    identification number that can be used to obtain telephone service.

        (2)  "Clone cellular telephone" or "counterfeit cellular telephone" means a cellular

    telephone whose electronic serial number has been altered from the electronic serial number that

    was programmed in the telephone by the manufacturer by someone other than the manufacturer.

        (3)  "Cloning paraphernalia" means materials that, when possessed in combination, are

    capable of the creation of a cloned cellular telephone.  These materials include scanners to

    intercept the electronic serial number and mobile identification number, cellular telephones, cables,

    EPROM chips, EPROM burners, software for programming the cloned telephone with a false

    electronic serial number and mobile identification number combination, a computer containing


    such software, and lists of electronic serial number and mobile identification number combinations.

        (4)  "Electronic serial number" means the unique number that:

        (a)  was programmed into a cellular telephone by its manufacturer;

        (b)  is transmitted by the cellular telephone; and

        (c)  is used by cellular telephone providers to validate radio transmissions to the system as

    having been made by an authorized device.

        (5)  "EPROM" or "Erasable programmable read-only memory" means an integrated circuit

    memory that can be programmed from an external source and erased, for reprogramming, by

    exposure to ultraviolet light.

        (6)  "Intercept" means to electronically capture, record, reveal, or otherwise access, the

    signals emitted or received during the operation of a cellular telephone without the consent of the

    sender or receiver, by means of any instrument, device or equipment.

        [(2)] (7)  "Manufacture of an unlawful telecommunication device" means to produce or

    assemble an unlawful telecommunication device, or to modify, alter, program, or reprogram a

    telecommunication device to be capable of acquiring or facilitating the acquisition of

    telecommunication service without the consent of the telecommunication service provider.

        (8)  "Mobile identification number" means the cellular telephone number assigned to the

    cellular telephone by the cellular telephone carrier.

        (9)  "Possess" means to have physical possession or otherwise to exercise control over

    tangible property.

        [(3)] (10)  "Sell" means to offer to, agree to offer to, or to sell, exchange, give, or dispose of

    an unlawful telecommunications device to another.

        [(4)] (11)  "Telecommunication device" means:

        (a)  any type of instrument, device, machine, or equipment which is capable of transmitting

    or receiving telephonic, electronic, or radio communications; or

        (b)  any part of an instrument, device, machine, or equipment, or other computer circuit,

    computer chip, electronic mechanism, or other component, which is capable of facilitating the

    transmission or reception of telephonic or electronic communications within the radio spectrum

- 2 -


    allocated to cellular radio telephony.

        [(5)] (12)  "Telecommunication service" includes any service provided for a charge or

    compensation to facilitate the origination, transmission, emission, or reception of signs, signals,

    writings, images, and sounds or intelligence of any nature by telephone, including cellular

    telephones, wire, radio, television optical or other electromagnetic system.

        [(6)] (13)  "Telecommunication service provider" means any person or entity providing

    telecommunication service including a cellular telephone or paging company or other person or

    entity which, for a fee, supplies the facility, cell site, mobile telephone switching office, or other

    equipment or telecommunication service.

        [(7)] (14)  "Unlawful telecommunication device" means any telecommunication device that

    is capable of, or has been altered, modified, programmed, or reprogrammed, alone or in conjunction

    with another access device, so as to be capable of, acquiring or facilitating the acquisition of a

    telecommunication service without the consent of the telecommunication service provider.  Unlawful

    devices include tumbler phones, counterfeit phones, tumbler microchips, counterfeit microchips, and

    other instruments capable of disguising their identity or location or of gaining access to a

    communications system operated by a telecommunication service provider.

        Section 2.  Section  76-6-409.6 is amended to read:

         76-6-409.6.  Use of telecommunication device to avoid lawful charge for service --

     Penalty.

        (1)  Any person who uses a telecommunication device with the intent to avoid the payment

    of any lawful charge for telecommunication service or with the knowledge that it was to avoid the

    payment of any lawful charge for telecommunication service is guilty of:

        (a)  a class B misdemeanor, if the value of the telecommunication service is less than $300

    or cannot be ascertained;

        (b)  a class A misdemeanor, if the value of the telecommunication service charge is or

    exceeds $300 but is not more than $1,000;

        (c)  a third degree felony, if the value of the telecommunication service is or exceeds $1,000

    but is not more than $5,000; [or]

- 3 -


        (d)  a second degree felony, if:

        (i)  the value of the telecommunication service is or exceeds $5,000[.]; or

        (ii)  the cloned cellular telephone was used to facilitate the commission of a felony.

        (2)  Any person who has been convicted previously of an offense under this section [shall

    be] is guilty of a second degree felony upon a second conviction and any subsequent conviction.

        Section 3.  Section  76-6-409.7 is amended to read:

         76-6-409.7.  Possession of any unlawful telecommunication device -- Penalty.

        (1)  Any person who knowingly possesses an unlawful telecommunication device [shall be]

    is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

        (2)  [If any] Any person who knowingly possesses five or more unlawful telecommunication

    devices in the same criminal episode[, he shall be] is guilty of a [class A misdemeanor] third degree

    felony. 

        (3)  Any person is guilty of a second degree felony who:

        (a)  knowingly and unlawfully possesses an instrument capable of intercepting electronic

    serial number and mobile identification number combinations under circumstances evidencing an

    intent to clone; or

        (b)  knowingly and unlawfully possesses cloning paraphernalia under circumstances

    evidencing an intent to clone.

        Section 4.  Section  76-6-409.8 is amended to read:

         76-6-409.8.  Sale of an unlawful telecommunication device -- Penalty.

        (1)  Any person [shall be] is guilty of a [class A misdemeanor] third degree felony who

    intentionally sells an unlawful telecommunication device or material, including hardware, data,

    computer software, or other information or equipment, knowing that the purchaser or a third person

    intends to use such material in the manufacture of an unlawful telecommunication device.

        (2)  If the offense under this section involves the intentional sale of five or more unlawful

    telecommunication devices within a six-month period, the person committing the offense [shall be]

    is guilty of a [third] second degree felony. 

        Section 5.  Section  76-6-409.9 is amended to read:

- 4 -


         76-6-409.9.  Manufacture of an unlawful telecommunication device -- Penalty.

        (1)  Any person who intentionally manufactures an unlawful telecommunication device [shall

    be] is guilty of a [class A misdemeanor] third degree felony.

        (2)  If the offense under this section involves the intentional manufacture of five or more

    unlawful telecommunication devices within a six-month period, the person committing the offense

    [shall be] is guilty of a [third] second degree felony.

- 5 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







