Sponsors: []Modifications: the minor'sthe minor78-3a-113or for contempt of court under Section 78-3a-901the minor's78-3a-506the minor'sthe minor's78-3a-506, Abuse, Neglect, andDependency Proceedings78-3a-119in accordance with Section 78-32-10.any disposition permitted under Section 78-3a-516, except for commitment to a secure facility.punishmentThere is appropriated $585,000 from the General Fund for fiscal year 1997-98 to the JudicialCouncil to pay for programs to which juveniles are referred as a result of the new powers thislegislation confers on juvenile court judges.If this bill and S.B. 134 both pass, it is the intent of the Legislature that the reference toSection 78-3a-516 on page 6 of this bill be changed to Section 78-3a-118.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0090.ZIP 14,973 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 90 Enrolled









     JUVENILE COURT POWERS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  Nathan C. Tanner


    Lyle W. Hillyard
Joseph L. Hull



    AN ACT RELATING TO THE JUDICIAL CODE; AMENDING THE AUTHORITY OF THE

    JUVENILE COURT TO PUNISH FOR CONTEMPT; APPROPRIATING $585,000 TO

    THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL TO FUND THE DISPOSITIONS OF JUVENILES UNDER

    THIS STATUTE; AND PROVIDING A COORDINATION CLAUSE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         78-3a-516, as enacted by Chapter 1 and last amended by Chapters 188, 234 and 318, Laws

    of Utah 1996

         78-3a-901, as enacted by Chapter 1, Laws of Utah 1996

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  78-3a-516 is amended to read:

         78-3a-516.  Adjudication of jurisdiction of juvenile court -- Disposition of cases --

     Enumeration of possible court orders -- Considerations of court.

        (1) (a)  When a minor is found to come within the provisions of Section 78-3a-104, the

    court shall so adjudicate.  The court shall make a finding of the facts upon which it bases its

    jurisdiction over the minor.  However, in cases within the provisions of Subsection 78-3a-104(1),

    findings of fact are not necessary.

        (b)  If the court adjudicates a minor for a crime of violence or an offense in violation of

    Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5, Weapons, it shall order that notice of the adjudication be provided to

    the school superintendent of the district in which the minor resides or attends school.  Notice shall

    be made to the district superintendent within three days and shall include the specific offenses for

    which the minor was adjudicated.

        (2)  Upon adjudication the court may make the following dispositions by court order:

        (a) (i)  The court may place the minor on probation or under protective supervision in [his]


    the minor's own home and upon conditions determined by the court, including community service

    as provided in Section 78-11-20.7.

        (ii)  If the court orders probation, the court shall direct that notice of its order be provided to

    designated persons in the local law enforcement agency and the school or transferee school, if

    applicable, which the minor attends.  The designated persons may receive the information for

    purposes of the minor's supervision and student safety.

        (iii)  Any employee of the local law enforcement agency and the school which the minor

    attends who discloses the court's order of probation is not:

        (A)  civilly liable except when the disclosure constitutes fraud or malice as provided in

    Section 63-30-4; and

        (B)  civilly or criminally liable except when the disclosure constitutes a knowing violation

    of Section 63-2-801.

        (b)  The court may place the minor in the legal custody of a relative or other suitable person,

    with or without probation or protective supervision, but the juvenile court may not assume the

    function of developing foster home services.

        (c)  The court may vest legal custody of the minor in the Division of Child and Family

    Services, Division of Youth Corrections, or the Division of Mental Health, and may order the

    Department of Human Services to provide dispositional recommendations and services.

        (d)  The court may commit the minor to the Division of Youth Corrections for secure

    confinement.  A minor under the jurisdiction of the court solely on the ground of neglect or

    dependency under Subsection 78-3a-104(1)(c) may not be committed to the Division of Youth

    Corrections.

        (e)  The court may commit the minor, subject to the court retaining continuing jurisdiction

    over him, to the temporary custody of the Division of Youth Corrections for observation and

    evaluation for a period not to exceed 90 days.

        (f) (i)  The court may commit the minor to the Division of Youth Corrections for a period

    not to exceed 30 days subject to the court retaining continuing jurisdiction over [him] the minor. 

    Notification of home detention, if applicable under this subsection, shall be provided pursuant to

- 2 -


    Subsection [78-3a-508] 78-3a-113(5).

        (ii)  Subsection (f) applies only to those minors adjudicated for an act which if committed

    by an adult would be a criminal offense or for contempt of court under Section 78-3a-901.  This

    commitment may be stayed or suspended upon conditions ordered by the court.

        (g)  The court may vest legal custody of an abused, neglected, or dependent minor in the

    Division of Child and Family Services or any other appropriate person in accordance with the

    requirements and procedures of Part 3.

        (h)  The court may place the minor on a ranch or forestry camp, or similar facility for care

    and also for work, if possible, if the person, agency, or association operating the facility has been

    approved or has otherwise complied with all applicable state and local laws.  A minor placed in a

    forestry camp or similar facility may be required to work on fire prevention, forestation and

    reforestation, recreational works, forest roads, and on other works on or off the grounds of the

    facility and may be paid wages, subject to the approval of and under conditions set by the court.

        (i)  The court may order that the minor be required to repair, replace, or otherwise make

    restitution for damage or loss caused by [his] the minor's wrongful act, including costs of treatment

    as stated in Section 78-3a-318, and may impose fines in limited amounts.

        (j)  The court may issue orders necessary for the collection of restitution and fines ordered

    by the court, including garnishments, wage withholdings, and executions.

        (k) (i)  The court may through its probation department encourage the development of

    employment or work programs to enable minors to fulfill their obligations under Subsection (i) and

    for other purposes considered desirable by the court.

        (ii)  Consistent with the order of the court, the probation officer may permit the minor found

    to be within the jurisdiction of the court to participate in a program of work restitution or community

    service in lieu of paying part or all of the fine imposed by the court.  The work restitution or

    community service permitted by the probation officer may not affect the amount of the surcharge.

        (l)  In violations of traffic laws within the court's jurisdiction, the court may, in addition to

    any other disposition, restrain the minor from driving for periods of time the court considers

    necessary and take possession of the minor's driver license.  However, proceedings involving an

- 3 -


    offense under Section [78-3a-517] 78-3a-506 are governed by that section regarding suspension of

    driving privileges.

        (m) (i)  When a minor is found within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section

    78-3a-104 because of violating Section 58-37-8, Title 58, Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act,

    or Title 58, Chapter 37b, Imitation Controlled Substances Act, the court shall, in addition to any

    fines or fees otherwise imposed, order that the minor perform a minimum of 20 hours, but no more

    than 100 hours, of community service. Satisfactory completion of an approved substance abuse

    prevention or treatment program may be credited by the court as community service hours.

        (ii)  When a minor is found within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section

    78-3a-104 because of a violation of Section 32A-12-209 or Subsection 76-9-701(1), the court may,

    upon the first adjudication, and shall, upon a second or subsequent adjudication, order that the minor

    perform a minimum of 20 hours, but no more than 100 hours of community service, in addition to

    any fines or fees otherwise imposed.  Satisfactory completion of an approved substance abuse

    prevention or treatment program may be credited by the court as community service hours.

        (n)  The court may order that the minor be examined or treated by a physician, surgeon,

    psychiatrist, or psychologist or that he receive other special care.  For these purposes the court may

    place the minor in a hospital or other suitable facility.

        (o) (i)  The court may appoint a guardian for the minor if it appears necessary in the interest

    of the minor, and may appoint a public or private institution or agency as guardian in which legal

    custody of the minor is vested.

        (ii)  In placing a minor under the guardianship or legal custody of an individual or of a

    private agency or institution, the court shall give primary consideration to the welfare of the minor. 

    When practicable, the court may take into consideration the religious preferences of the minor and

    of [his] the minor's parents.

        (p) (i)  In support of a decree under Section 78-3a-104, the court may order reasonable

    conditions to be complied with by the parents or guardian, the minor, [his] the minor's custodian,

    or any other person who has been made a party to the proceedings.  Conditions may include:

        (A)  visitation by the parents or one parent;

- 4 -


        (B)  restrictions on the minor's associates;

        (C)  restrictions on the minor's occupation and other activities; and

        (D)  requirements to be observed by the parents or custodian.

        (ii)  A minor[,] whose parents or guardians successfully complete a family or other

    counseling program[,] may be credited by the court for detention, confinement, or probation time.

        (q)  The court may order the minor to be placed in the legal custody of the Division of Mental

    Health or committed to the physical custody of a local mental health authority, in accordance with

    the procedures and requirements of Title 62A, Chapter 12, Part 2A.

        (r)  The court may make an order committing a minor within its jurisdiction to the Utah State

    Developmental Center if the minor has been found mentally retarded in accordance with the

    provisions of Title 62A, Chapter 5, Part 3, Admission to Mental Retardation Facility.  The procedure

    applicable in the district courts with respect to judicial commitments to the Utah State

    Developmental Center shall be followed by the juvenile court in these cases.

        (s)  The court may terminate all parental rights upon a finding of compliance with the

    provisions of Part 4, Termination of Parental Rights Act.

        (t)  The court may make any other reasonable orders for the best interest of the minor or as

    required for the protection of the public, except that a person younger than 18 years of age may not

    be committed to jail or prison, and offenses under Section [78-3a-517] 78-3a-506 are governed by

    that section regarding suspension of driving privileges.

        (u)  The court may combine several of the above-listed modes of disposition if they are

    compatible.

        (v)  Before depriving any parent of custody, the court shall give due consideration to the

    rights of parents concerning their minors.  The court may transfer custody to another person, agency,

    or institution in accordance with the requirements and procedures of Part 3, Abuse, Neglect, and

    Dependency Proceedings.

        (w)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(y)(i), an order under this section for probation or

    placement of a minor with an individual or an agency shall include a date certain for a review of the

    case by the court.  A new date shall be set upon each review.

- 5 -


        (x)  In reviewing foster home placements, special attention shall be given to making

    adoptable minors available for adoption without delay.

        (y) (i)  The juvenile court may enter an order of permanent custody and guardianship with

    a relative or individual of a minor where the court has previously acquired jurisdiction as a result of

    an adjudication of abuse, neglect, or dependency, excluding cases arising under Subsection

    78-3a-105(4).

        (ii)  Such orders remain in effect until the minor reaches majority and are not subject to

    review under Section [78-3a-518] 78-3a-119, but may be modified by petition or motion as provided

    in Section 78-3a-903.

        (iii)  Orders permanently terminating the rights of a parent, guardian, or custodian and

    permanent orders of custody and guardianship do not expire with a termination of jurisdiction of the

    juvenile court.

        Section 2.  Section  78-3a-901 is amended to read:

         78-3a-901.  Violation of order of court -- Contempt -- Penalty.

        (1)  Any person who willfully violates or refuses to obey any order of the court may be

    proceeded against for contempt of court.

        (2)  Any person 18 years of age or older found in contempt of court may be punished [by:]

    in accordance with Section 78-32-10.

        [(a)  a fine not to exceed $200;]

        [(b)  imprisonment not to exceed 30 days; or]

        [(c)  both.]

         (3) (a)  Any person younger than 18 years of age found in contempt of court may be punished

    by[:] any disposition permitted under Section 78-3a-516, except for commitment to a secure facility.

        [(i)  a fine not to exceed $200;]

        [(ii)  commitment to the Division of Youth Corrections for not more than ten days; or]

        [(iii) both.]

         (b)  The court may stay or suspend all or part of the [fine or the commitment to the Division

    of Youth Corrections] punishment upon compliance with conditions imposed by the court.

- 6 -


        (4)  The court may enforce orders of fines, fees, or restitution through garnishments, wage

    withholdings, supplementary proceedings, or executions.

        Section 3.   Appropriation.

        There is appropriated $585,000 from the General Fund for fiscal year 1997-98 to the Judicial

    Council to pay for programs to which juveniles are referred as a result of the new powers this

    legislation confers on juvenile court judges.

        Section 4.   Coordination clause.

        If this bill and S.B. 134 both pass, it is the intent of the Legislature that the reference to

    Section 78-3a-516 on page 6 of this bill be changed to Section 78-3a-118.

- 7 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







