Sponsors: []Modifications:     58-37e-1.This chapter is known as the "Drug Dealer's Liability Act."    58-37e-2.As used in this chapter:(1)  "Illegal drug" means a drug or controlled substance whose distribution is a violation ofstate law.(2)  "Illegal drug market" means the support system of illegal drug-related operations, fromproduction to retail sales, through which an illegal drug reaches the user.(3)  "Illegal drug market target community" is the area described in Section 58-37e-7.(4)  "Individual drug user" means the individual whose illegal drug use is the basis of anaction brought under this chapter.(5)  "Level 1 offense" means possession of 16 ounces or more or distribution of four ouncesor more of a mixture containing a specified illegal drug or possession of 16 pounds or more or 100plants or more or distribution of ten pounds or more of marijuana.(6)  "Level 2 offense" means possession of eight ounces or more, but less than 16 ounces,or distribution of two ounces or more, but less than four ounces, of a mixture containing a specifiedillegal drug or possession of eight pounds or more or 75 plants or more, but less than 16 pounds or100 plants, or distribution of more than five pounds, but less than ten pounds of marijuana.(7)  "Level 3 offense" means possession of four ounces or more, but less than eight ounces,or distribution of one ounce or more, but less than two ounces, of a mixture containing a specifiedillegal drug or possession of four pounds or more or 50 plants or more, but less than eight poundsor 75 plants, or distribution of more than one pound, but less than five pounds of marijuana.(8)  "Level 4 offense" means possession of 1/4 ounce or more, but less than four ounces, ordistribution of less than one ounce of a mixture containing a specified illegal drug or possession ofone pound or more or 25 plants or more, but less than four pounds or 50 plants, or distribution of lessthan one pound of marijuana.(9)  "Participate in the illegal drug market" means to distribute, possess with an intent todistribute, commit an act intended to facilitate the marketing or distribution of, or agree to distribute,possess with an intent to distribute, or commit an act intended to facilitate the marketing anddistribution of an illegal drug.  "Participate in the illegal drug market" does not include the purchaseor receipt of an illegal drug for personal use only.(10)  "Period of illegal drug use" means, in relation to the individual drug user, the time ofthe individual's first use of an illegal drug to the accrual of the cause of the action.  The period ofillegal drug use is presumed to commence two years before the cause of action accrues unless thedefendant proves otherwise by clear and convincing evidence.(11)  "Person" means an individual, governmental entity, corporation, firm, trust, partnership,or incorporated or unincorporated association, existing under or authorized by the laws of this state,another state, or foreign country.(12)  "Place of illegal drug activity" means, in relation to the individual drug user, eachcounty in which the individual possesses or uses an illegal drug or in which the individual resides,attends school, or is employed during the period of the individual's illegal drug use, unless thedefendant proves otherwise by clear and convincing evidence.(13)  "Place of participation" means, in relation to a defendant in an action brought under thischapter, each county in which the person participates in the illegal drug market or in which theperson resides, attends school, or is employed during the period of the person's participation in theillegal drug market.(14)  "Specified illegal drug" means cocaine, heroin, or methamphetamine and any othercontrolled substance the distribution of which is a violation of state law.    58-37e-3.(1)  A person who knowingly participates in the illegal drug market within this state is liablefor civil damages as provided in this chapter.  A person may recover damages under this chapter forinjury resulting from an individual's use of an illegal drug.(2)  A law enforcement officer or agency, the state, or a person acting at the direction of alaw enforcement officer or agency or the state is not liable for participating in the illegal drugmarket, if the participation is in furtherance of an official investigation.    58-37e-4.(1)  One or more of the following persons may bring an action for damages caused by anindividual's use of an illegal drug:(a)  a parent, legal guardian, child, spouse, or sibling of the individual drug user;(b)  an individual who was exposed to an illegal drug in utero;(c)  an employer of the individual drug user;(d)  a medical facility, insurer, governmental entity, employer, or other entity that funds adrug treatment program or employee assistance program for the individual drug user or thatotherwise expended money on behalf of the individual drug user; or(e)  a person injured as a result of the willful, reckless, or negligent actions of an individualdrug user.(2)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may seek damages from one ormore of the following:(a)  a person who knowingly distributed, or knowingly participated in the chain ofdistribution of, an illegal drug that was actually used by the individual drug user;(b)  a person who knowingly participated in the illegal drug market if:(i)  the place of illegal drug activity by the individual drug user is within the illegal drugmarket target community of the defendant;(ii)  the defendant's participation in the illegal drug market was connected with the same typeof illegal drug used by the individual drug user; and(iii)  the defendant participated in the illegal drug market at any time during the individualdrug user's period of illegal drug use.(3)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may recover all of the followingdamages:(a)  economic damages, including the cost of treatment and rehabilitation, medical expenses,loss of economic or educational potential, loss of productivity, absenteeism, support expenses,accidents or injury, and any other pecuniary loss proximately caused by the illegal drug use;(b)  noneconomic damages, including physical and emotional pain, suffering, physicalimpairment, emotional distress, mental anguish, disfigurement, loss of enjoyment, loss ofcompanionship, services and consortium, and other nonpecuniary losses proximately caused by anindividual's use of an illegal drug;(c)  exemplary damages;(d)  reasonable attorney's fees; and(e)  costs of suit, including reasonable expenses for expert testimony.    58-37e-5.(1)  An individual drug user may not bring an action for damages caused by the use of anillegal drug, except as otherwise provided in this section.  An individual drug user may bring anaction for damages caused by the use of an illegal drug only if all of the following conditions aremet:(a)  the individual personally discloses to narcotics enforcement authorities, more than sixmonths before filing the action, all of the information known to the individual regarding all thatindividual's sources of illegal drugs;(b)  the individual has not used an illegal drug within the six months before filing the action;and(c)  the individual continues to remain free of the use of an illegal drug throughout thependency of the action.(2)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may seek damages only from aperson who distributed, or is in the chain of distribution of, an illegal drug that was actually used bythe individual drug user.(3)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may recover only the followingdamages:(a)  economic damages, including the cost of treatment, rehabilitation, and medical expenses,loss of economic or educational potential, loss of productivity, absenteeism, accidents or injury, andany other pecuniary loss proximately caused by the person's illegal drug use;(b)  reasonable attorney's fees; and(c)  costs of suit, including reasonable expenses for expert testimony.    58-37e-6.A third party may not pay damages awarded under this chapter, or provide a defense ormoney for a defense, on behalf of an insured under a contract of insurance or indemnification.    58-37e-7.A person whose participation in the illegal drug market constitutes the following leveloffense shall be considered to have the following illegal drug market target community:(1)  Level 4: the county in which the defendant's place of participation is situated;(2)  Level 3: the target community described in Subsection (1) plus all counties with a bordercontiguous to that target community;(3)  Level 2: the target community described in Subsection (2) plus all counties with a bordercontiguous to that target community;(4)  Level 1: the state.    58-37e-8.(1)  Two or more persons may join in one action under this chapter as plaintiffs if theirrespective actions have at least one place of illegal drug activity in common and if any portion of theperiod of illegal drug use overlaps with the period of illegal drug use for every other plaintiff.(2)  Two or more persons may be joined in one action under this chapter as defendants ifthose persons are liable to at least one plaintiff.(3)  A plaintiff need not be interested in obtaining and a defendant need not be interested indefending against all the relief demanded.  Judgment may be given for one or more plaintiffsaccording to their respective rights to relief and against one or more defendants according to theirrespective liabilities.    58-37e-9.(1)  An action by an individual drug user is governed by the principles of comparativeresponsibility.  Comparative responsibility attributed to the plaintiff does not bar recovery butdiminishes the award of compensatory damages proportionally, according to the measure ofresponsibility attributed to the plaintiff.(2)  The burden of proving the comparative responsibility of the plaintiff is on the defendant,which shall be shown by clear and convincing evidence.(3)  Comparative responsibility may not be applied in an action brought by a third party whowas not an individual drug user.    58-37e-10.A person subject to liability under this chapter has a right of action for contribution againstanother person subject to liability under this chapter.  Contribution may be enforced either in theoriginal action or by a separate action brought for that purpose.  A plaintiff may seek recovery inaccordance with this chapter and existing law against a person whom a defendant has asserted a rightof contribution.    58-37e-11.(1)  Proof of participation in the illegal drug market in an action brought under this chaptershall be shown by clear and convincing evidence.  Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,other elements of the cause of action shall be shown by a preponderance of the evidence.(2)  A person against whom recovery is sought who has a criminal conviction pursuant tostate drug laws or the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, Pub. L.91-513, 84 Stat. 1236, codified at 21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq., is estopped from denying participationin the illegal drug market.  A conviction is also prima facie evidence of the person's participation inthe illegal drug market during the two years preceding the date of an act giving rise to a conviction.(3)  The absence of a criminal drug conviction of a person against whom recovery is soughtdoes not bar an action against that person.    58-37e-12.(1)  A plaintiff under this chapter, subject to Subsection (3), may request an ex parteprejudgment writ of attachment from the court pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 64Aagainst all assets of a defendant sufficient to satisfy a potential award.  If attachment is instituted,a defendant is entitled to an immediate hearing.  Attachment may be lifted if the defendantdemonstrates that the assets will be available for a potential award or if the defendant posts a bondsufficient to cover a potential award.(2)  A person against whom a judgment has been rendered under this chapter is not eligibleto exempt any property, of whatever kind, from process to levy or process to execute on thejudgment, unless the property is exempt by operation of law.(3)  Any assets sought to satisfy a judgment under this chapter that are named in a forfeitureaction or have been seized for forfeiture by any state or federal agency may not be used to satisfya judgment unless and until the assets have been released following the conclusion of the forfeitureaction or released by the agency that seized the assets.    58-37e-13.(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a claim under this chapter may not bebrought more than two years after the cause of action accrues.  A cause of action accrues under thischapter when a person who may recover has reason to know of the harm from illegal drug use thatis the basis for the cause of action and has reason to know that the illegal drug use is the cause of theharm.(2) (a)  For a plaintiff, the statute of limitations under this section is tolled while theindividual potential plaintiff is incapacitated by the use of an illegal drug to the extent that theindividual cannot reasonably be expected to seek recovery under this chapter or as otherwiseprovided by law.(b)  For a defendant, the statute of limitations under this section is tolled until six monthsafter the individual potential defendant is convicted of a criminal drug offense or as otherwiseprovided by law.(3)  The statute of limitations under this chapter for a claim based on participation in theillegal drug market that occurred prior to the effective date of this chapter does not begin to run untilthe effective date of this chapter.    58-37e-14.(1)  A county attorney, district attorney, or city attorney may represent any politicalsubdivision of the state, and the attorney general may represent the state in an action brought underthis chapter.(2)  On motion by a governmental agency involved in a drug investigation or prosecution,an action brought under this chapter shall be stayed until the completion of the criminal investigationor prosecution that gave rise to the motion for a stay of the action.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0054.ZIP 12,373 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 54 Enrolled









     DRUG DEALER'S LIABILITY ACT




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Craig L. Taylor


    AN ACT RELATING TO CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; CREATING THE DRUG

    DEALER'S LIABILITY ACT; PROVIDING FOR CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST DRUG

    DEALERS BY PERSONS HARMED BY THE UNLAWFUL DEALING OF DRUGS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    ENACTS:

         58-37e-1, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-2, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-3, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-4, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-5, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-6, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-7, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-8, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-9, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-10, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-11, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-12, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-13, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         58-37e-14, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  58-37e-1 is enacted to read:

     CHAPTER 37e.  DRUG DEALER'S LIABILITY ACT


         58-37e-1.  Title.

        This chapter is known as the "Drug Dealer's Liability Act."

        Section 2.  Section  58-37e-2 is enacted to read:


         58-37e-2.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Illegal drug" means a drug or controlled substance whose distribution is a violation of

    state law.

        (2)  "Illegal drug market" means the support system of illegal drug-related operations, from

    production to retail sales, through which an illegal drug reaches the user.

        (3)  "Illegal drug market target community" is the area described in Section 58-37e-7.

        (4)  "Individual drug user" means the individual whose illegal drug use is the basis of an

    action brought under this chapter.

        (5)  "Level 1 offense" means possession of 16 ounces or more or distribution of four ounces

    or more of a mixture containing a specified illegal drug or possession of 16 pounds or more or 100

    plants or more or distribution of ten pounds or more of marijuana.

        (6)  "Level 2 offense" means possession of eight ounces or more, but less than 16 ounces,

    or distribution of two ounces or more, but less than four ounces, of a mixture containing a specified

    illegal drug or possession of eight pounds or more or 75 plants or more, but less than 16 pounds or

    100 plants, or distribution of more than five pounds, but less than ten pounds of marijuana.

        (7)  "Level 3 offense" means possession of four ounces or more, but less than eight ounces,

    or distribution of one ounce or more, but less than two ounces, of a mixture containing a specified

    illegal drug or possession of four pounds or more or 50 plants or more, but less than eight pounds

    or 75 plants, or distribution of more than one pound, but less than five pounds of marijuana.

        (8)  "Level 4 offense" means possession of 1/4 ounce or more, but less than four ounces, or

    distribution of less than one ounce of a mixture containing a specified illegal drug or possession of

    one pound or more or 25 plants or more, but less than four pounds or 50 plants, or distribution of less

    than one pound of marijuana.

        (9)  "Participate in the illegal drug market" means to distribute, possess with an intent to

    distribute, commit an act intended to facilitate the marketing or distribution of, or agree to distribute,

    possess with an intent to distribute, or commit an act intended to facilitate the marketing and

    distribution of an illegal drug.  "Participate in the illegal drug market" does not include the purchase

- 2 -


    or receipt of an illegal drug for personal use only.

        (10)  "Period of illegal drug use" means, in relation to the individual drug user, the time of

    the individual's first use of an illegal drug to the accrual of the cause of the action.  The period of

    illegal drug use is presumed to commence two years before the cause of action accrues unless the

    defendant proves otherwise by clear and convincing evidence.

        (11)  "Person" means an individual, governmental entity, corporation, firm, trust, partnership,

    or incorporated or unincorporated association, existing under or authorized by the laws of this state,

    another state, or foreign country.

        (12)  "Place of illegal drug activity" means, in relation to the individual drug user, each

    county in which the individual possesses or uses an illegal drug or in which the individual resides,

    attends school, or is employed during the period of the individual's illegal drug use, unless the

    defendant proves otherwise by clear and convincing evidence.

        (13)  "Place of participation" means, in relation to a defendant in an action brought under this

    chapter, each county in which the person participates in the illegal drug market or in which the

    person resides, attends school, or is employed during the period of the person's participation in the

    illegal drug market.

        (14)  "Specified illegal drug" means cocaine, heroin, or methamphetamine and any other

    controlled substance the distribution of which is a violation of state law.

        Section 3.  Section  58-37e-3 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-3.  Liability for participation in the illegal drug market.

        (1)  A person who knowingly participates in the illegal drug market within this state is liable

    for civil damages as provided in this chapter.  A person may recover damages under this chapter for

    injury resulting from an individual's use of an illegal drug.

        (2)  A law enforcement officer or agency, the state, or a person acting at the direction of a

    law enforcement officer or agency or the state is not liable for participating in the illegal drug

    market, if the participation is in furtherance of an official investigation.

        Section 4.  Section  58-37e-4 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-4.  Recovery of damages.

- 3 -


        (1)  One or more of the following persons may bring an action for damages caused by an

    individual's use of an illegal drug:

        (a)  a parent, legal guardian, child, spouse, or sibling of the individual drug user;

        (b)  an individual who was exposed to an illegal drug in utero;

        (c)  an employer of the individual drug user;

        (d)  a medical facility, insurer, governmental entity, employer, or other entity that funds a

    drug treatment program or employee assistance program for the individual drug user or that

    otherwise expended money on behalf of the individual drug user; or

        (e)  a person injured as a result of the willful, reckless, or negligent actions of an individual

    drug user.

        (2)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may seek damages from one or

    more of the following:

        (a)  a person who knowingly distributed, or knowingly participated in the chain of

    distribution of, an illegal drug that was actually used by the individual drug user;

        (b)  a person who knowingly participated in the illegal drug market if:

        (i)  the place of illegal drug activity by the individual drug user is within the illegal drug

    market target community of the defendant;

        (ii)  the defendant's participation in the illegal drug market was connected with the same type

    of illegal drug used by the individual drug user; and

        (iii)  the defendant participated in the illegal drug market at any time during the individual

    drug user's period of illegal drug use.

        (3)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may recover all of the following

    damages:

        (a)  economic damages, including the cost of treatment and rehabilitation, medical expenses,

    loss of economic or educational potential, loss of productivity, absenteeism, support expenses,

    accidents or injury, and any other pecuniary loss proximately caused by the illegal drug use;

        (b)  noneconomic damages, including physical and emotional pain, suffering, physical

    impairment, emotional distress, mental anguish, disfigurement, loss of enjoyment, loss of

- 4 -


    companionship, services and consortium, and other nonpecuniary losses proximately caused by an

    individual's use of an illegal drug;

        (c)  exemplary damages;

        (d)  reasonable attorney's fees; and

        (e)  costs of suit, including reasonable expenses for expert testimony.

        Section 5.  Section  58-37e-5 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-5.  Limited recovery of damages.

        (1)  An individual drug user may not bring an action for damages caused by the use of an

    illegal drug, except as otherwise provided in this section.  An individual drug user may bring an

    action for damages caused by the use of an illegal drug only if all of the following conditions are

    met:

        (a)  the individual personally discloses to narcotics enforcement authorities, more than six

    months before filing the action, all of the information known to the individual regarding all that

    individual's sources of illegal drugs;

        (b)  the individual has not used an illegal drug within the six months before filing the action;

    and

        (c)  the individual continues to remain free of the use of an illegal drug throughout the

    pendency of the action.

        (2)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may seek damages only from a

    person who distributed, or is in the chain of distribution of, an illegal drug that was actually used by

    the individual drug user.

        (3)  A person entitled to bring an action under this section may recover only the following

    damages:

        (a)  economic damages, including the cost of treatment, rehabilitation, and medical expenses,

    loss of economic or educational potential, loss of productivity, absenteeism, accidents or injury, and

    any other pecuniary loss proximately caused by the person's illegal drug use;

        (b)  reasonable attorney's fees; and

        (c)  costs of suit, including reasonable expenses for expert testimony.

- 5 -


        Section 6.  Section  58-37e-6 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-6.  Third party cases.

        A third party may not pay damages awarded under this chapter, or provide a defense or

    money for a defense, on behalf of an insured under a contract of insurance or indemnification.

        Section 7.  Section  58-37e-7 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-7.  Illegal drug market target community.

        A person whose participation in the illegal drug market constitutes the following level

    offense shall be considered to have the following illegal drug market target community:

        (1)  Level 4: the county in which the defendant's place of participation is situated;

        (2)  Level 3: the target community described in Subsection (1) plus all counties with a border

    contiguous to that target community;

        (3)  Level 2: the target community described in Subsection (2) plus all counties with a border

    contiguous to that target community;

        (4)  Level 1: the state.

        Section 8.  Section  58-37e-8 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-8.  Joinder of parties.

        (1)  Two or more persons may join in one action under this chapter as plaintiffs if their

    respective actions have at least one place of illegal drug activity in common and if any portion of the

    period of illegal drug use overlaps with the period of illegal drug use for every other plaintiff.

        (2)  Two or more persons may be joined in one action under this chapter as defendants if

    those persons are liable to at least one plaintiff.

        (3)  A plaintiff need not be interested in obtaining and a defendant need not be interested in

    defending against all the relief demanded.  Judgment may be given for one or more plaintiffs

    according to their respective rights to relief and against one or more defendants according to their

    respective liabilities.

        Section 9.  Section  58-37e-9 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-9.  Comparative responsibility.

        (1)  An action by an individual drug user is governed by the principles of comparative

- 6 -


    responsibility.  Comparative responsibility attributed to the plaintiff does not bar recovery but

    diminishes the award of compensatory damages proportionally, according to the measure of

    responsibility attributed to the plaintiff.

        (2)  The burden of proving the comparative responsibility of the plaintiff is on the defendant,

    which shall be shown by clear and convincing evidence.

        (3)  Comparative responsibility may not be applied in an action brought by a third party who

    was not an individual drug user.

        Section 10.  Section  58-37e-10 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-10.  Contribution among and recovery from multiple defendants.

        A person subject to liability under this chapter has a right of action for contribution against

    another person subject to liability under this chapter.  Contribution may be enforced either in the

    original action or by a separate action brought for that purpose.  A plaintiff may seek recovery in

    accordance with this chapter and existing law against a person whom a defendant has asserted a right

    of contribution.

        Section 11.  Section  58-37e-11 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-11.  Standard of proof -- Effect of criminal drug conviction.

        (1)  Proof of participation in the illegal drug market in an action brought under this chapter

    shall be shown by clear and convincing evidence.  Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,

    other elements of the cause of action shall be shown by a preponderance of the evidence.

        (2)  A person against whom recovery is sought who has a criminal conviction pursuant to

    state drug laws or the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, Pub. L.

    91-513, 84 Stat. 1236, codified at 21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq., is estopped from denying participation

    in the illegal drug market.  A conviction is also prima facie evidence of the person's participation in

    the illegal drug market during the two years preceding the date of an act giving rise to a conviction.

        (3)  The absence of a criminal drug conviction of a person against whom recovery is sought

    does not bar an action against that person.

        Section 12.  Section  58-37e-12 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-12.  Prejudgment attachment and execution on judgments.

- 7 -


        (1)  A plaintiff under this chapter, subject to Subsection (3), may request an ex parte

    prejudgment writ of attachment from the court pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 64A

    against all assets of a defendant sufficient to satisfy a potential award.  If attachment is instituted,

    a defendant is entitled to an immediate hearing.  Attachment may be lifted if the defendant

    demonstrates that the assets will be available for a potential award or if the defendant posts a bond

    sufficient to cover a potential award.

        (2)  A person against whom a judgment has been rendered under this chapter is not eligible

    to exempt any property, of whatever kind, from process to levy or process to execute on the

    judgment, unless the property is exempt by operation of law.

        (3)  Any assets sought to satisfy a judgment under this chapter that are named in a forfeiture

    action or have been seized for forfeiture by any state or federal agency may not be used to satisfy

    a judgment unless and until the assets have been released following the conclusion of the forfeiture

    action or released by the agency that seized the assets.

        Section 13.  Section  58-37e-13 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-13.  Statute of limitations.

        (1)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a claim under this chapter may not be

    brought more than two years after the cause of action accrues.  A cause of action accrues under this

    chapter when a person who may recover has reason to know of the harm from illegal drug use that

    is the basis for the cause of action and has reason to know that the illegal drug use is the cause of the

    harm.

        (2) (a)  For a plaintiff, the statute of limitations under this section is tolled while the

    individual potential plaintiff is incapacitated by the use of an illegal drug to the extent that the

    individual cannot reasonably be expected to seek recovery under this chapter or as otherwise

    provided by law.

        (b)  For a defendant, the statute of limitations under this section is tolled until six months

    after the individual potential defendant is convicted of a criminal drug offense or as otherwise

    provided by law.

        (3)  The statute of limitations under this chapter for a claim based on participation in the

- 8 -


    illegal drug market that occurred prior to the effective date of this chapter does not begin to run until

    the effective date of this chapter.

        Section 14.  Section  58-37e-14 is enacted to read:

         58-37e-14.  Representation of governmental entities -- Stay of action.

        (1)  A county attorney, district attorney, or city attorney may represent any political

    subdivision of the state, and the attorney general may represent the state in an action brought under

    this chapter.

        (2)  On motion by a governmental agency involved in a drug investigation or prosecution,

    an action brought under this chapter shall be stayed until the completion of the criminal investigation

    or prosecution that gave rise to the motion for a stay of the action.

- 9 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







