Sponsors: []Modifications:     19-8-101.This chapter is known as the "Voluntary Cleanup Program."    19-8-102.As used in this chapter:(1)  "Account" means the Environmental Voluntary Cleanup restricted account created underSection 19-8-103.(2)  "Agreement" means a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapter.(3)  "Applicant" means the person:(a)  who submits an application to participate in a voluntary cleanup agreement under thischapter; or(b)  who enters into a voluntary cleanup agreement made under this chapter with theexecutive director.(4)  "Completion" means, regarding property covered by an agreement:(a)  no further response actions are necessary; or(b)  the applicant is satisfactorily maintaining the engineering controls, remediation systems,postclosure care, and institutional controls to the extent required pursuant to the voluntary cleanupagreement.(5)  "Contaminant" means:(a)  hazardous materials as defined in Section 19-6-302;(b)  hazardous substance as defined in Section 19-6-302;(c)  hazardous waste as defined in Section 19-6-102;(d)  hazardous waste constituent listed in 40 C.F.R.  Part 261, Subpart D, or Table One, 40C.F.R.  261.24;(e)  pollution as defined in Section 19-5-102;(f)  regulated substance as defined in Section 19-6-402; and(g)  solid waste as defined in Section 19-6-102.(6)  "Environmental assessment" means the assessment described in Section 19-8-107.(7)  "Executive director" means the executive director of the Utah Department ofEnvironmental Quality or the executive director's representative.(8)  "Program" means the Voluntary Environmental Cleanup Program created under thischapter.(9)  "Response action" means the cleanup or removal of a contaminant from the environment.(10)  "Solid waste" has the same meaning as defined in Section 19-6-102.    19-8-103.(1)  There is created within the General Fund the Environmental Voluntary Cleanup restrictedaccount.(2)  The account shall be used to fund department administration and oversight of voluntarycleanups initiated under this chapter.(3)  The account may earn interest, which shall be deposited in the account, to be used forthe purposes under this section.    19-8-104.(1)  There is created under this chapter and within the Department of Environmental Qualitythe Voluntary Environmental Cleanup Program.(2)  The program shall be administered by the executive director.(3)  The program shall be funded by application fees and imposed oversight costs as providedin this chapter.    19-8-105.Subject to Section 19-8-106, any site is eligible for participation in the voluntary cleanupprogram created under this chapter except:(1)  a treatment, storage, or disposal facility regulated under 42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq.;(2)  that portion of a site that is on the national priorities list; or(3)  that portion of a site for which an administrative, state, or federal enforcement action isexisting or pending against the applicant for remediation of the contaminants described in theapplication.    19-8-106.(1)  The executive director may in his sole discretion reject an application prior to acceptingthe application fee, and return the application fee to the applicant if:(a)  the executive director has reason to believe that a working relationship with the applicantcannot be achieved; or(b)  the application site is not eligible under Section 19-8-105.(2) (a)  The executive director may reject an application after processing the application ifthe executive secretary determines:(i)  the application is not complete or is not accurate; or(ii)  the applicant has not demonstrated financial capability to perform the voluntary cleanup.(b)  The applicant is not entitled to refund of an application fee for an application rejectedunder this Subsection (2).(3)  An application rejected under Subsection (1) or (2) shall be promptly returned to theapplicant with a letter of explanation.(4) (a)  If the executive director rejects an application because it is incomplete or inaccurate,the executive director shall, not later than 60 days after receipt of the application, provide to theapplicant a list in writing of all information needed to make the application complete or accurate,as appropriate.(b)  The applicant may submit for a second time an application rejected due to inaccuracyor incompleteness without submitting an additional application fee.    19-8-107.(1)  To participate in the voluntary cleanup program an applicant shall:(a)  submit to the department an application and application fee under Subsection (2); and(b)  pay to the department all costs of the department's oversight of the voluntary cleanup.(2)  An application submitted under this section shall:(a)  be on a form provided by the executive director;(b)  contain pertinent information regarding the applicant and the applicant's ability toperform the voluntary cleanup, including the applicant's financial capability;(c)  include pertinent information regarding the site, including property ownership, currentproperty use, proposed property use, prior and present contact with regulatory programs that relateto the environmental condition of the property, and response action objectives;(d)  provide any other background information requested by the executive director;(e)  include an environmental assessment of the actual or threatened release of thecontaminant at the site addressed by the application;(f)  be accompanied by an application fee as established under Section 19-8-117; and(g)  be submitted according to schedules set by department rules.(3)  The environmental assessment required under Subsection (2) shall include:(a)  a legal description of the site;(b)  a description of the physical characteristics of the site;(c)  the operational history of the site to the extent known by the applicant;(d)  information of which the applicant is aware concerning the nature and extent of anyrelevant contamination or release at the site and immediately contiguous to the site, and where thecontamination is located; and(e)  relevant information of which the applicant is aware concerning the potential for humanand environmental exposure to contamination at the site.(4)  If the executive director accepts an application fee, the department shall take action onthe application in the order in which it is received, but in all circumstances within 60 days of thereceipt of the application by the department.(5)  Fees collected under this section shall be deposited in the General Fund in theEnvironmental Voluntary Cleanup Account created under Section 19-8-103.    19-8-108.(1) (a)  Before the executive director may evaluate any detailed plan or report regarding theremediation goals and proposed methods of remediation, the applicant and the executive directorshall have entered into a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapter.(b)  The agreement shall establish the terms and conditions for the evaluation ofinvestigation, remediation, and status reports.(2)  Before the applicant may initiate any response action covered by an agreement, avoluntary cleanup agreement shall have been signed by the applicant and the executive director,except that the applicant may take emergency measures as necessary, but shall coordinate thesemeasures with the appropriate emergency response authorities.(3)  A voluntary cleanup agreement shall provide for:(a)  recovery by the department of all reasonable costs:(i)  incurred in the voluntary cleanup in the review and oversight of the applicant's work planand reports and as a result of the department's field activities regarding the cleanup;(ii)  attributable to the voluntary cleanup agreement; and(iii)  in excess of the amount of fees submitted by the applicant under Section 19-8-107; and(b)  a schedule of payments by the applicant to the department, to be made by the applicantfor recovery of all department costs attributable to the voluntary cleanup program, including:(i)  direct and indirect costs of overhead, salaries, equipment, and utilities;(ii)  legal, management, and support costs; and(iii)  appropriate tasks, deliverables, and schedules.(4)  A voluntary cleanup agreement shall:(a)  identify all statutes and rules with which the applicant shall comply;(b)  describe any work plan or report the applicant shall submit to the executive director forreview, including a final report that provides all information necessary for the executive director toconfirm that all work contemplated by the voluntary cleanup agreement has been completed;(c)  include a schedule for submitting the information required by Subsection (4)(b); and(d)  state the technical standards to be applied in evaluating the work plans and reports.(5)  If an agreement under this section is not established between the applicant and theexecutive director within 30 days after good faith negotiations between the parties have beeninitiated:(a)  the applicant or the executive director may, upon providing written notice to the otherparty, withdraw from the negotiations; and(b)  the applicant's application fee is not refundable.(6)  The department may not initiate an enforcement action against an applicant regardinga contamination or release, or any activity that resulted in the contamination or release if theapplicant:(a)  is in compliance with this chapter regarding the contamination or release; and(b)  has entered into a voluntary cleanup agreement that is in effect under this chapterregarding the contamination or release.    19-8-109.(1)  An agreement established under this chapter may be terminated by the executive directoror the applicant by giving 15 days prior notice, in writing, to the other party.(2) (a)  Only those costs incurred or obligated by the executive director prior to the date oftermination of the agreement are recoverable under an agreement terminated under this section.  Anyunused amounts already paid by the applicant to the department as of the date of termination, otherthan the application fee, are refundable to the applicant.(b)  The executive director shall provide to the applicant written and itemized notificationof all costs for which the applicant is liable under this Subsection (2) within 90 days after the datethe agreement is terminated.(3)  If the applicant does not pay to the executive director the department's costs incurred inthe voluntary cleanup within 90 days after the date the applicant receives written notice underSubsection (2)(b), the executive director may request the state attorney general to bring a court actionin the name of the state to recover the amount the applicant owes under this section, and reasonableattorney's fees and court costs.(4)  Termination of an agreement under this section does not affect any right of the:(a)  executive director to recover costs under any other law; or(b)  department to take enforcement and other action as allowed by law.    19-8-110.(1)  After the applicant and the executive director have signed the voluntary cleanupagreement, the applicant shall prepare and submit the appropriate work plans and reports to theexecutive director as provided in the agreement.(2)  The executive director shall review and evaluate the work plans and reports for accuracy,quality, and completeness.(3)  The executive director may approve a voluntary cleanup work plan or report, or if hedoes not approve the work plan or a report, he shall notify the applicant in writing concerningadditional information or commitments necessary to obtain approval.(4)  At any time during the evaluation of a work plan or report, the executive director mayrequest the applicant to submit additional or corrected information.(5)  After considering the proposed future use of the property that is the subject of theagreement, the executive director may approve work plans and reports submitted under this sectionthat do not require removal or remedy of all discharges, releases, and threatened releases on theproperty if the applicant's response actions under the agreement:(a)  will be completed in a manner that protects human health and the environment;(b)  will not cause, contribute to, or exacerbate discharges, releases, or threatened releaseson the property that are not required to be removed or remedied under the work plan; and(c)  will not interfere with or substantially increase the costs of response actions to addressany remaining discharges, releases, or threatened releases resulting from releases initially generatedon the property.    19-8-111.(1)  If the executive director determines that an applicant has completed a voluntary cleanupin accordance with the agreement entered into under this chapter, the executive director shall within30 days after the determination issue to the applicant a certificate of completion.(2)  The certificate of completion shall:(a)  acknowledge the protection from liability provided by Section 19-8-113;(b)  state the proposed future use of the property as defined under the voluntary cleanupagreement;(c)  provide a legal description of the property and identify the owner of the property; and(d)  state the applicant has complied with the voluntary cleanup agreement and has met therequirements of Sections 19-8-108 and 19-8-110.(3)  The executive director shall upon issuance of the certificate of completion record a copyin the real property records of the county in which the site is located.    19-8-112.(1)  If the executive director determines the applicant has not successfully completed avoluntary cleanup in accordance with an agreement entered into under this chapter, the executivedirector shall:(a)  notify the applicant and the current owner of the property that is the subject of theagreement of the denial of a certificate of completion; and(b)  provide to the applicant a list in writing of the reasons for the denial.(2)  The applicant may appeal the determination of the executive director as provided in Title63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act.    19-8-113.(1)  An applicant who is not responsible for the contaminant or contamination under theprovisions listed in Subsection (1)(b) at the time the applicant applies to enter into a voluntarycleanup agreement under this chapter, is released by issuance of a certificate of completion underSection 19-8-111 from all liability to the state for cleanup of property covered by the certificate,except for any releases or consequences the applicant causes.(b)  Provisions referred to in Subsection (1)(a) are: Title 19, Chapter 5, Part 1, Water QualityAct; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 1, Solid and Hazardous Waste Act; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 3,Hazardous Substances Mitigation Act; or Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 4, Underground Storage Tank Act.(2)  There is no release from liability under this chapter if a certificate of completion isobtained by fraud, misrepresentation, or the knowing failure to disclose material information.(3) (a)  After a certificate of completion is issued under this chapter, an owner who thenacquires property covered by the certificate, or a lender who then makes a loan secured by propertycovered by the certificate, is released from all liability to the state regarding property covered by thecertificate for cleanup of contamination released before the date of the certificate, except underSubsection (3)(b).(b)  A release of liability under Subsection (3)(a) is not available to an owner or lender underSubsection (3)(a) who:(i)  was originally responsible for a release or contamination under Title 19, Chapter 5, Part1, Water Quality Act; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 1, Solid and Hazardous Waste Act; Title 19, Chapter6, Part 3, Hazardous Substances Mitigation Act; or Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 4, Underground StorageTank Act;(ii)  changes the land use from the use specified in the certificate of completion if the changeduse or uses may reasonably be expected to result in increased risks to human health or theenvironment; or(iii)  causes further releases on the property covered by the certification.(c)  A release under this Subsection (3) is subject to the limitations of Subsection (2).    19-8-114.(1)  Response action conducted as part of a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapterdoes not require a state or local environmental permit, except as required by a program delegated tothe state by the federal government under this title.(2)  The department shall by rule require that the applicant conducting the voluntary cleanupunder this chapter comply with any federal or state standard, requirement, criterion, or limitation towhich the response action would otherwise be subject if a permit were required.    19-8-115.The department shall make rules as necessary to administer this chapter.  The rules shallinclude provisions for public participation by, and notice to, affected property owners regardingvoluntary cleanup decisions.    19-8-116.(1)  This chapter does not release, discharge, or in any way affect any claims, causes ofaction, or demands in law or equity the applicant or the department may have against any person nota party to the agreement, for any liability it may have arising out of or relating in any way to thegeneration, storage, treatment, handling, transportation, release, or disposal of any contaminants,including transportation to or from the site covered by the agreement.(2)  This chapter does not affect the applicant's right to seek contribution, indemnity, or anyother available remedy against any party other than the department, who is responsible or liable forcontribution, indemnity, or otherwise for any amounts which have been or will be expended by theapplicant in connection with the site.    19-8-117.(1) (a)  For applications submitted on or after May 5, 1997 through June 30, 1998, theapplication fee under this chapter is $2,000.(b)  Regarding applications submitted on and after July 1, 1998, the executive director shallannually calculate the costs to administer the voluntary cleanup program under this chapter and shallestablish the fees for the program under Section 63-38-3.2.(2)  All fees under Subsection (1) shall be deposited in the account created under Section19-8-103.    19-8-118.(1)  A person who has completed a response action prior to May 5, 1997, at a site that wouldhave been eligible for participation in the program under this chapter, may submit an application tothe executive director under Section 19-8-107 for a certificate of completion under Section 19-8-111.(2)  The application shall include information required by department rules concerning theproperty addressed by the application and the response action conducted at the site.(3)  The executive director and applicant shall identify in the voluntary agreement anynecessary studies to be conducted by the applicant to demonstrate the cleanup has been completedas provided in Section 19-8-110.(4)  Applications submitted under this section are subject to Sections 19-8-110 through19-8-113 to the extent those sections are applicable.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0190.ZIP 15,764 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 190 Enrolled









     VOLUNTARY RELEASE CLEANUP PROGRAM




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  L. Alma Mansell


    AN ACT RELATING TO HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; ESTABLISHING A

    VOLUNTARY CLEANUP PROGRAM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL RELEASES;

    ESTABLISHING APPLICATION AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES; PROVIDING

    FOR PARTICIPANT FEES TO FUND THE PROGRAM, AND AN ACCOUNT FOR

    THE FEES; AND PROVIDING FOR SPECIFIED RELEASE OF LIABILITY FOR

    PARTIES THAT COMPLETE THE CLEANUP PROCESS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    ENACTS:

         19-8-101, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-102, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-103, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-104, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-105, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-106, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-107, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-108, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-109, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-110, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-111, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-112, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-113, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-114, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-115, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-116, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         19-8-117, Utah Code Annotated 1953


         19-8-118, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  19-8-101 is enacted to read:

     CHAPTER 8. VOLUNTARY CLEANUP PROGRAM


         19-8-101.  Title.

        This chapter is known as the "Voluntary Cleanup Program."

        Section 2.  Section  19-8-102 is enacted to read:

         19-8-102.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Account" means the Environmental Voluntary Cleanup restricted account created under

    Section 19-8-103.

        (2)  "Agreement" means a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapter.

        (3)  "Applicant" means the person:

        (a)  who submits an application to participate in a voluntary cleanup agreement under this

    chapter; or

        (b)  who enters into a voluntary cleanup agreement made under this chapter with the

    executive director.

        (4)  "Completion" means, regarding property covered by an agreement:

        (a)  no further response actions are necessary; or

        (b)  the applicant is satisfactorily maintaining the engineering controls, remediation systems,

    postclosure care, and institutional controls to the extent required pursuant to the voluntary cleanup

    agreement.

        (5)  "Contaminant" means:

        (a)  hazardous materials as defined in Section 19-6-302;

        (b)  hazardous substance as defined in Section 19-6-302;

        (c)  hazardous waste as defined in Section 19-6-102;

        (d)  hazardous waste constituent listed in 40 C.F.R.  Part 261, Subpart D, or Table One, 40

    C.F.R.  261.24;

- 2 -


        (e)  pollution as defined in Section 19-5-102;

        (f)  regulated substance as defined in Section 19-6-402; and

        (g)  solid waste as defined in Section 19-6-102.

        (6)  "Environmental assessment" means the assessment described in Section 19-8-107.

        (7)  "Executive director" means the executive director of the Utah Department of

    Environmental Quality or the executive director's representative.

        (8)  "Program" means the Voluntary Environmental Cleanup Program created under this

    chapter.

        (9)  "Response action" means the cleanup or removal of a contaminant from the environment.

        (10)  "Solid waste" has the same meaning as defined in Section 19-6-102.

        Section 3.  Section  19-8-103 is enacted to read:

         19-8-103.  Creation of restricted account -- Purposes.

        (1)  There is created within the General Fund the Environmental Voluntary Cleanup restricted

    account.

        (2)  The account shall be used to fund department administration and oversight of voluntary

    cleanups initiated under this chapter.

        (3)  The account may earn interest, which shall be deposited in the account, to be used for

    the purposes under this section.

        Section 4.  Section  19-8-104 is enacted to read:

         19-8-104.  Program.

        (1)  There is created under this chapter and within the Department of Environmental Quality

    the Voluntary Environmental Cleanup Program.

        (2)  The program shall be administered by the executive director.

        (3)  The program shall be funded by application fees and imposed oversight costs as provided

    in this chapter.

        Section 5.  Section  19-8-105 is enacted to read:

         19-8-105.  Eligibility and exceptions -- Grounds for application rejection by executive

     director.

- 3 -


        Subject to Section 19-8-106, any site is eligible for participation in the voluntary cleanup

    program created under this chapter except:

        (1)  a treatment, storage, or disposal facility regulated under 42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq.;

        (2)  that portion of a site that is on the national priorities list; or

        (3)  that portion of a site for which an administrative, state, or federal enforcement action is

    existing or pending against the applicant for remediation of the contaminants described in the

    application.

        Section 6.  Section  19-8-106 is enacted to read:

         19-8-106.  Rejection of application -- Notice to applicant -- Resubmission procedure.

        (1)  The executive director may in his sole discretion reject an application prior to accepting

    the application fee, and return the application fee to the applicant if:

        (a)  the executive director has reason to believe that a working relationship with the applicant

    cannot be achieved; or

        (b)  the application site is not eligible under Section 19-8-105.

        (2) (a)  The executive director may reject an application after processing the application if

    the executive secretary determines:

        (i)  the application is not complete or is not accurate; or

        (ii)  the applicant has not demonstrated financial capability to perform the voluntary cleanup.

        (b)  The applicant is not entitled to refund of an application fee for an application rejected

    under this Subsection (2).

        (3)  An application rejected under Subsection (1) or (2) shall be promptly returned to the

    applicant with a letter of explanation.

        (4) (a)  If the executive director rejects an application because it is incomplete or inaccurate,

    the executive director shall, not later than 60 days after receipt of the application, provide to the

    applicant a list in writing of all information needed to make the application complete or accurate,

    as appropriate.

        (b)  The applicant may submit for a second time an application rejected due to inaccuracy

    or incompleteness without submitting an additional application fee.

- 4 -


        Section 7.  Section  19-8-107 is enacted to read:

         19-8-107.  Participation application -- Procedure.

        (1)  To participate in the voluntary cleanup program an applicant shall:

        (a)  submit to the department an application and application fee under Subsection (2); and

        (b)  pay to the department all costs of the department's oversight of the voluntary cleanup.

        (2)  An application submitted under this section shall:

        (a)  be on a form provided by the executive director;

        (b)  contain pertinent information regarding the applicant and the applicant's ability to

    perform the voluntary cleanup, including the applicant's financial capability;

        (c)  include pertinent information regarding the site, including property ownership, current

    property use, proposed property use, prior and present contact with regulatory programs that relate

    to the environmental condition of the property, and response action objectives;

        (d)  provide any other background information requested by the executive director;

        (e)  include an environmental assessment of the actual or threatened release of the

    contaminant at the site addressed by the application;

        (f)  be accompanied by an application fee as established under Section 19-8-117; and

        (g)  be submitted according to schedules set by department rules.

        (3)  The environmental assessment required under Subsection (2) shall include:

        (a)  a legal description of the site;

        (b)  a description of the physical characteristics of the site;

        (c)  the operational history of the site to the extent known by the applicant;

        (d)  information of which the applicant is aware concerning the nature and extent of any

    relevant contamination or release at the site and immediately contiguous to the site, and where the

    contamination is located; and

        (e)  relevant information of which the applicant is aware concerning the potential for human

    and environmental exposure to contamination at the site.

        (4)  If the executive director accepts an application fee, the department shall take action on

    the application in the order in which it is received, but in all circumstances within 60 days of the

- 5 -


    receipt of the application by the department.

        (5)  Fees collected under this section shall be deposited in the General Fund in the

    Environmental Voluntary Cleanup Account created under Section 19-8-103.

        Section 8.  Section  19-8-108 is enacted to read:

         19-8-108.  Voluntary agreement -- Procedure and establishment.

        (1) (a)  Before the executive director may evaluate any detailed plan or report regarding the

    remediation goals and proposed methods of remediation, the applicant and the executive director

    shall have entered into a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapter.

        (b)  The agreement shall establish the terms and conditions for the evaluation of

    investigation, remediation, and status reports.

        (2)  Before the applicant may initiate any response action covered by an agreement, a

    voluntary cleanup agreement shall have been signed by the applicant and the executive director,

    except that the applicant may take emergency measures as necessary, but shall coordinate these

    measures with the appropriate emergency response authorities.

        (3)  A voluntary cleanup agreement shall provide for:

        (a)  recovery by the department of all reasonable costs:

        (i)  incurred in the voluntary cleanup in the review and oversight of the applicant's work plan

    and reports and as a result of the department's field activities regarding the cleanup;

        (ii)  attributable to the voluntary cleanup agreement; and

        (iii)  in excess of the amount of fees submitted by the applicant under Section 19-8-107; and

        (b)  a schedule of payments by the applicant to the department, to be made by the applicant

    for recovery of all department costs attributable to the voluntary cleanup program, including:

        (i)  direct and indirect costs of overhead, salaries, equipment, and utilities;

        (ii)  legal, management, and support costs; and

        (iii)  appropriate tasks, deliverables, and schedules.

        (4)  A voluntary cleanup agreement shall:

        (a)  identify all statutes and rules with which the applicant shall comply;

        (b)  describe any work plan or report the applicant shall submit to the executive director for

- 6 -


    review, including a final report that provides all information necessary for the executive director to

    confirm that all work contemplated by the voluntary cleanup agreement has been completed;

        (c)  include a schedule for submitting the information required by Subsection (4)(b); and

        (d)  state the technical standards to be applied in evaluating the work plans and reports.

        (5)  If an agreement under this section is not established between the applicant and the

    executive director within 30 days after good faith negotiations between the parties have been

    initiated:

        (a)  the applicant or the executive director may, upon providing written notice to the other

    party, withdraw from the negotiations; and

        (b)  the applicant's application fee is not refundable.

        (6)  The department may not initiate an enforcement action against an applicant regarding

    a contamination or release, or any activity that resulted in the contamination or release if the

    applicant:

        (a)  is in compliance with this chapter regarding the contamination or release; and

        (b)  has entered into a voluntary cleanup agreement that is in effect under this chapter

    regarding the contamination or release.

        Section 9.  Section  19-8-109 is enacted to read:

         19-8-109.  Termination of agreement -- Cost recovery.

        (1)  An agreement established under this chapter may be terminated by the executive director

    or the applicant by giving 15 days prior notice, in writing, to the other party.

        (2) (a)  Only those costs incurred or obligated by the executive director prior to the date of

    termination of the agreement are recoverable under an agreement terminated under this section.  Any

    unused amounts already paid by the applicant to the department as of the date of termination, other

    than the application fee, are refundable to the applicant.

        (b)  The executive director shall provide to the applicant written and itemized notification

    of all costs for which the applicant is liable under this Subsection (2) within 90 days after the date

    the agreement is terminated.

        (3)  If the applicant does not pay to the executive director the department's costs incurred in

- 7 -


    the voluntary cleanup within 90 days after the date the applicant receives written notice under

    Subsection (2)(b), the executive director may request the state attorney general to bring a court action

    in the name of the state to recover the amount the applicant owes under this section, and reasonable

    attorney's fees and court costs.

        (4)  Termination of an agreement under this section does not affect any right of the:

        (a)  executive director to recover costs under any other law; or

        (b)  department to take enforcement and other action as allowed by law.

        Section 10.  Section  19-8-110 is enacted to read:

         19-8-110.  Voluntary cleanup work plans and reports.

        (1)  After the applicant and the executive director have signed the voluntary cleanup

    agreement, the applicant shall prepare and submit the appropriate work plans and reports to the

    executive director as provided in the agreement.

        (2)  The executive director shall review and evaluate the work plans and reports for accuracy,

    quality, and completeness.

        (3)  The executive director may approve a voluntary cleanup work plan or report, or if he

    does not approve the work plan or a report, he shall notify the applicant in writing concerning

    additional information or commitments necessary to obtain approval.

        (4)  At any time during the evaluation of a work plan or report, the executive director may

    request the applicant to submit additional or corrected information.

        (5)  After considering the proposed future use of the property that is the subject of the

    agreement, the executive director may approve work plans and reports submitted under this section

    that do not require removal or remedy of all discharges, releases, and threatened releases on the

    property if the applicant's response actions under the agreement:

        (a)  will be completed in a manner that protects human health and the environment;

        (b)  will not cause, contribute to, or exacerbate discharges, releases, or threatened releases

    on the property that are not required to be removed or remedied under the work plan; and

        (c)  will not interfere with or substantially increase the costs of response actions to address

    any remaining discharges, releases, or threatened releases resulting from releases initially generated

- 8 -


    on the property.

        Section 11.  Section  19-8-111 is enacted to read:

         19-8-111.  Certificate of completion.

        (1)  If the executive director determines that an applicant has completed a voluntary cleanup

    in accordance with the agreement entered into under this chapter, the executive director shall within

    30 days after the determination issue to the applicant a certificate of completion.

        (2)  The certificate of completion shall:

        (a)  acknowledge the protection from liability provided by Section 19-8-113;

        (b)  state the proposed future use of the property as defined under the voluntary cleanup

    agreement;

        (c)  provide a legal description of the property and identify the owner of the property; and

        (d)  state the applicant has complied with the voluntary cleanup agreement and has met the

    requirements of Sections 19-8-108 and 19-8-110.

        (3)  The executive director shall upon issuance of the certificate of completion record a copy

    in the real property records of the county in which the site is located.

        Section 12.  Section  19-8-112 is enacted to read:

         19-8-112.  Denial of certificate of completion -- Appeal.

        (1)  If the executive director determines the applicant has not successfully completed a

    voluntary cleanup in accordance with an agreement entered into under this chapter, the executive

    director shall:

        (a)  notify the applicant and the current owner of the property that is the subject of the

    agreement of the denial of a certificate of completion; and

        (b)  provide to the applicant a list in writing of the reasons for the denial.

        (2)  The applicant may appeal the determination of the executive director as provided in Title

    63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act.

        Section 13.  Section  19-8-113 is enacted to read:

         19-8-113.  Applicant's release from liability.

        (1)  An applicant who is not responsible for the contaminant or contamination under the

- 9 -


    provisions listed in Subsection (1)(b) at the time the applicant applies to enter into a voluntary

    cleanup agreement under this chapter, is released by issuance of a certificate of completion under

    Section 19-8-111 from all liability to the state for cleanup of property covered by the certificate,

    except for any releases or consequences the applicant causes.

        (b)  Provisions referred to in Subsection (1)(a) are: Title 19, Chapter 5, Part 1, Water Quality

    Act; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 1, Solid and Hazardous Waste Act; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 3,

    Hazardous Substances Mitigation Act; or Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 4, Underground Storage Tank Act.

        (2)  There is no release from liability under this chapter if a certificate of completion is

    obtained by fraud, misrepresentation, or the knowing failure to disclose material information.

        (3) (a)  After a certificate of completion is issued under this chapter, an owner who then

    acquires property covered by the certificate, or a lender who then makes a loan secured by property

    covered by the certificate, is released from all liability to the state regarding property covered by the

    certificate for cleanup of contamination released before the date of the certificate, except under

    Subsection (3)(b).

        (b)  A release of liability under Subsection (3)(a) is not available to an owner or lender under

    Subsection (3)(a) who:

        (i)  was originally responsible for a release or contamination under Title 19, Chapter 5, Part

    1, Water Quality Act; Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 1, Solid and Hazardous Waste Act; Title 19, Chapter

    6, Part 3, Hazardous Substances Mitigation Act; or Title 19, Chapter 6, Part 4, Underground Storage

    Tank Act;

        (ii)  changes the land use from the use specified in the certificate of completion if the changed

    use or uses may reasonably be expected to result in increased risks to human health or the

    environment; or

        (iii)  causes further releases on the property covered by the certification.

        (c)  A release under this Subsection (3) is subject to the limitations of Subsection (2).

        Section 14.  Section  19-8-114 is enacted to read:

         19-8-114.  Additional permits not required.

        (1)  Response action conducted as part of a voluntary cleanup agreement under this chapter

- 10 -


    does not require a state or local environmental permit, except as required by a program delegated to

    the state by the federal government under this title.

        (2)  The department shall by rule require that the applicant conducting the voluntary cleanup

    under this chapter comply with any federal or state standard, requirement, criterion, or limitation to

    which the response action would otherwise be subject if a permit were required.

        Section 15.  Section  19-8-115 is enacted to read:

         19-8-115.  Rules -- Public notice -- Participation.

        The department shall make rules as necessary to administer this chapter.  The rules shall

    include provisions for public participation by, and notice to, affected property owners regarding

    voluntary cleanup decisions.

        Section 16.  Section  19-8-116 is enacted to read:

         19-8-116.  Reservation of applicant's and department's causes of action.

        (1)  This chapter does not release, discharge, or in any way affect any claims, causes of

    action, or demands in law or equity the applicant or the department may have against any person not

    a party to the agreement, for any liability it may have arising out of or relating in any way to the

    generation, storage, treatment, handling, transportation, release, or disposal of any contaminants,

    including transportation to or from the site covered by the agreement.

        (2)  This chapter does not affect the applicant's right to seek contribution, indemnity, or any

    other available remedy against any party other than the department, who is responsible or liable for

    contribution, indemnity, or otherwise for any amounts which have been or will be expended by the

    applicant in connection with the site.

        Section 17.  Section  19-8-117 is enacted to read:

         19-8-117.  Program report and budget allocations -- Fee schedule.

        (1) (a)  For applications submitted on or after May 5, 1997 through June 30, 1998, the

    application fee under this chapter is $2,000.

        (b)  Regarding applications submitted on and after July 1, 1998, the executive director shall

    annually calculate the costs to administer the voluntary cleanup program under this chapter and shall

    establish the fees for the program under Section 63-38-3.2.

- 11 -


        (2)  All fees under Subsection (1) shall be deposited in the account created under Section

    19-8-103.

        Section 18.  Section  19-8-118 is enacted to read:

         19-8-118.  Cleanups conducted prior to May 5, 1997.

        (1)  A person who has completed a response action prior to May 5, 1997, at a site that would

    have been eligible for participation in the program under this chapter, may submit an application to

    the executive director under Section 19-8-107 for a certificate of completion under Section 19-8-111.

        (2)  The application shall include information required by department rules concerning the

    property addressed by the application and the response action conducted at the site.

        (3)  The executive director and applicant shall identify in the voluntary agreement any

    necessary studies to be conducted by the applicant to demonstrate the cleanup has been completed

    as provided in Section 19-8-110.

        (4)  Applications submitted under this section are subject to Sections 19-8-110 through

    19-8-113 to the extent those sections are applicable.

- 12 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







