Sponsors: []Modifications: :(i)(ii)(iii)  any internet connection by a resident or inhabitant of this state with either a resident ornonresident maintained internet site;(iv)(v)(vi)(vii);Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0103.ZIP 9,743 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 103 Enrolled









     CONSUMER PROTECTION AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: David L.  Buhler


    AN ACT RELATING TO COMMERCE AND TRADE; AMENDING THE DEFINITIONS OF

    TRANSACTIONAL RESOURCES AND TELEPHONE SOLICITATION AS

    OVERSEEN BY THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER PROTECTION.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         13-2-6, as last amended by Chapter 177, Laws of Utah 1994

         13-26-2, as last amended by Chapter 26, Laws of Utah 1995

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  13-2-6 is amended to read:

         13-2-6.  Enforcement powers.

        (1)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act, the division

    shall have authority to convene administrative hearings, issue cease and desist orders, and impose

    fines under all the chapters identified in Section 13-2-1.

        (2)  Any person who intentionally violates a final cease and desist order entered by the

    division of which he has notice is guilty of a third degree felony.

        (3)  If the division has reasonable cause to believe that any person is engaged in violating

    any chapter listed in Section 13-2-1, the division may promptly issue the alleged violator a citation

    signed by the division's director or his designee.

        (a)  Each citation shall be in writing and shall:

        (i)  set forth with particularity the nature of the violation, including a reference to the

    statutory or administrative rule provision being violated;

        (ii)  state that any request for review of the citation must be made in writing and be

    received by the division no more than ten days following issuance;

        (iii)  state the consequences of failing to make a timely request for review; and

        (iv)  state all other information required by Subsection 63-46b-3(2).


        (b)  In computing any time period prescribed by this section, the following days may not be

    included:

        (i)  the day a citation is issued by the division;

        (ii)  the day the division received a request for review of a citation;

        (iii)  Saturdays and Sundays; and

        (iv)  a legal holiday set forth in Subsection 63-13-2(1)(a).

        (c)  If the recipient of a citation makes a timely request for review, within ten days of

    receiving the request, the division shall convene an adjudicative proceeding in accordance with Title

    63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act.

        (d) (i)  If the presiding officer finds that there is not substantial evidence that the recipient

    violated a chapter listed in Section 13-2-1 at the time the citation was issued, the citation may not

    become final, and the division shall immediately vacate the citation and promptly notify the recipient

    in writing.

        (ii)  If the presiding officer finds there is substantial evidence that the recipient violated a

    chapter listed in Section 13-2-1 at the time the citation was issued, the citation shall become final

    and the division may enter a cease and desist order against the recipient.

        (e)  A citation issued under this chapter may be personally served upon any person upon

    whom a summons may be served in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.  A citation

    also may be served by first-class mail, postage prepaid.

        (f)  If the recipient fails to make a timely request for review, the citation shall become the

    final order of the division.  The period to contest the citation may be extended by the director for

    good cause shown.

        (g)  If the chapter violated allows for an administrative fine, after a citation becomes final,

    the director may impose the administrative fine.

        (4) (a)  A person violating a chapter identified in Section 13-2-1 is subject to the division's

    jurisdiction if:

        (i)  the violation or attempted violation is committed either wholly or partly within the state;

        (ii)  conduct committed outside the state constitutes an attempt to commit a violation within

- 2 -


    the state; or

        (iii)  transactional resources located within the state are used by the offender to directly or

    indirectly facilitate a violation or attempted violation.

        (b)  As used in this section, "transactional resources" means:

        (i)  any mail drop or mail box, whether or not located on the premises of a United States Post

    Office;

        (ii)  any telephone or facsimile transmission device;

        (iii)  any internet connection by a resident or inhabitant of this state with either a resident or

    nonresident maintained internet site;

        (iv)  any business office or private residence used for a business-related purpose;

        (v)  any account with or services of a financial institution;

        (vi)  the services of a common or private carrier; or

        (vii)  the use of any city, county, or state asset or facility, including any road or highway.

        (5)  The director or his designee, for the purposes outlined in any chapter administered by

    the division, may administer oaths, issue subpoenas, compel the attendance of witnesses, and compel

    the production of papers, books, accounts, documents, and evidence. 

        Section 2.  Section  13-26-2 is amended to read:

         13-26-2.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

        (1)  "Continuity plan" means a shipment, with the prior express consent of the buyer, at

    regular intervals of similar special-interest products. A continuity plan is distinguished from a

    subscription arrangement by no binding commitment period or purchase amount.

        (2)  "Division" means the Division of Consumer Protection.

        (3)  "Fictitious personal name" means a name other than an individual's true name.  An

    "individual's true name" is the name taken at birth unless changed by operation of law or by civil

    action.

        (4)  "Material statement" or "material fact" means information that a person of ordinary

    intelligence or prudence would consider important in deciding whether or not to accept an offer

- 3 -


    extended through a telephone solicitation.

        (5)  "Premium" means a gift, bonus, prize, award, certificate, or other document by which

    a prospective purchaser is given a right, chance, or privilege to purchase or receive goods or services

    with a stated or represented value of $25 or more as an inducement to a prospective purchaser to

    purchase other goods or services.

        (6)  "Subscription arrangements," "standing order arrangements," "supplements," and "series

    arrangements" mean products or services provided, with the prior express request or consent of the

    buyer, for a specified period of time at a price dependent on the duration of service and to

    complement an initial purchase.

        (7) (a)  "Telephone solicitation," "sale," "selling," or "solicitation of sale" means a sale or

    solicitation of goods or services in which:

        (i) (A)  the seller solicits the sale over the telephone;

        (B)  the purchaser's agreement to purchase is made over the telephone; and

        (C)  the purchaser, over the telephone, pays for or agrees to commit to payment for goods

    or services prior to or upon receipt by the purchaser of the goods or services;

        (ii)  the solicitor, not exempt under Section 13-26-4, induces a prospective purchaser over

    the telephone, to make and keep an appointment that[:  (A)  is not a home solicitation sale subject

    to Title 70C, Chapter 5, Home Solicitation Sales; and (B)  ] directly results in the purchase of goods

    or services by the purchaser that would not have occurred without the telephone solicitation and

    inducement by the solicitor[.];

        (iii) the seller offers or promises a premium to a prospective purchaser if:

        (A)  the seller induces the prospective purchaser to initiate a telephone contact with the

    telephone soliciting business; and

        (B)  the resulting solicitation meets the requirements of Subsection (7)(a); or

        (iv)  the solicitor solicits a charitable donation involving the exchange of any premium, prize,

    gift, ticket, subscription, or other benefit in connection with any appeal made for a charitable purpose

    by an organization that is not otherwise exempt under Subsection 13-26-4(2)(b)(iv).

        (b)  A solicitation of sale or telephone solicitation is considered complete when made,

- 4 -


    whether or not the person receiving the solicitation agrees to the sale or to make a charitable

    donation.

        (8)  "Telephone soliciting business" means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability

    company, corporation, or other association of individuals engaged in a common effort to solicit sales

    regulated under this chapter.

        (9)  "Telephone solicitor" or "solicitor" means a person, partnership, limited liability

    company, corporation, or other entity that makes, places, or receives telephone calls for the purpose

    of selling or solicitation of sales as defined in Subsection (7) over the telephone, whether the calls

    originate in Utah or are received in Utah.

- 5 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







