Sponsors: []Modifications: (b)  The division may not deny, suspend, or revoke a concealed firearm permit solely for asingle conviction for an infraction violation of Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5, Weapons.(c)(d);(3)  in any house of worship or in any private residence where dangerous weapons areprohibited as provided in Section 

76-10-530

; or(4)  at an Olympic venue secure area in violation of Section 

76-10-531

    53-12-301.1.(1)  For purposes of this section and Section 

76-10-531

, "Olympic venues" means a specificlocation:(a)  that is secured by a perimeter and public access is controlled; and(b)  where spectators view Olympic events; or(c)  designated for media or official athlete housing not open to the general public.(2)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, theOlympic law enforcement commander designated in Section 

53-12-301

 shall make rules:(a)  designating the locations of secure areas within Olympic venues where a firearm,ammunition, dangerous weapon, or explosive, chemical, or incendiary device is prohibited betweenJanuary 25, 2002, and April 1, 2002;(b)  providing notice that a reasonable person would understand regarding:(i)  the locations of the Olympic venue secure areas where the items in Subsection (1)(a) areprohibited;(ii)  the locations of public access entrances and exits to the Olympic venue secure areas; and(iii)  the locations of secure weapons storage areas;(iv)  the penalty for violating Section 

76-10-531

, restriction of dangerous weapons inOlympic venue secure areas; and(c)  designating persons authorized to carry weapons into Olympic venues, including thosepersons exempted by Subsection 

76-10-523

(1).(3)  The notice in Subsection (1)(b) shall include:(a)  written notice provided to a person at the time the person receives tickets to events atOlympic venue secure areas; and(b)  at least one notice prominently displayed at each entrance to every Olympic venue securearea in which a dangerous weapon or explosive is prohibited.(4)  The Olympic law enforcement commander:(a)  shall use reasonable means, which may include mechanical, electronic, x-ray, or anyother device to detect dangerous weapons or explosives concealed in or upon the person of anyindividual attempting to enter an Olympic venue secure area;(b)  may provide secure weapons storage areas so that persons may store their weapons priorto entering an Olympic venue secure area; and(c)  shall provide instructions to personnel operating an Olympic venue secure area that, upondiscovery of a firearm possessed by a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm, the personnelmay:(i)  require the person to deliver the firearm to a secure weapons storage area permitted bySubsection (3)(b); or(ii)  require the person to exit the Olympic venue secure area.(5)  A cause of action may be maintained against the state for any injury where an individualcan establish by clear and convincing evidence that:(a)  if a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm had been able to access the concealedfirearm the injury would not have occurred to that individual or others; and(b)  the individual suffered damages as a consequence.(6)  Nothing in Subsection (5) modifies or amends Title 63, Chapter 30, GovernmentalImmunity Act.    63-55b-153.(1)  Subsection 

53-5-710

(4) pertaining to restrictions at Olympic venue secure areas isrepealed April 1, 2002.(2)  Section 

53-12-301.1

 is repealed April 1, 2002.    63-55b-176.Section 

76-10-531

 is repealed April 1, 2002.selling, transferring,lawfully in hispossession or lawfullyor state entitiesor state entity(g)  "Enter" means intrusion of the entire body.(h)(j)(k)(l)  "House of worship" means a church, temple, synagogue, mosque, or other building setapart primarily for the purpose of worship in which religious services are held and the main body ofwhich is kept for that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with its primary purpose.(m)(n)(o)  "Residence" means an improvement to real property used or occupied as a primary orsecondary residence.(p)(q)(r)  "State entity" means each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution,officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory, library, unit, bureau,panel, or other administrative unit of the state.    76-10-530.(1)  A person, including a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to Title 53,Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Weapon Act, after having received notice as provided in Subsection(2) that firearms are prohibited, may not knowingly and intentionally:(a)  transport a firearm into:(i)  a house of worship; or(ii)  a private residence; or(b)  while in possession of a firearm, enter or remain in:(i)  a house of worship; or(ii)  a private residence.(2)  Notice that firearms are prohibited may be made by:(a)  personal communication to the actor by:(i)  the church or organization operating the house of worship;(ii)  the owner, lessee, or person with lawful right of possession of the private residence; or(iii)  a person with authority to act for the person or entity in Subsections (2)(a)(i) and (ii);or(b)  posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of persons entering the houseof worship or private residence.(3)  Nothing in this section permits an owner who has granted the lawful right of possessionto a renter or lessee to restrict the renter or lessee from lawfully possessing a firearm in the residence.(4)  A violation of this section is an infraction.    76-10-531.(1)  A person, including a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to Title 53,Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Weapon Act, may not knowingly and intentionally transport  into anOlympic venue secure area, designated by rule pursuant to Section 

53-12-301.1

:(a)  a firearm, ammunition, or dangerous weapon; or(b)  an explosive, chemical, or incendiary device, as those terms are defined in Section

76-10-306

.(2)  A violation of this section is:(a)  a class B misdemeanor if the violation is with a firearm, ammunition, or dangerousweapon; or(b)  a first degree felony if the violation is with an explosive, chemical, or incendiary device.(3)  It is a defense to any prosecution under this section that the accused, in committing theact made criminal by this section, acted in conformity with the rules authorized by Section

53-12-301.1

.If this bill and S.B. 91, Weapons - Technical Amendments, both pass, it is the intent of theLegislature that:    (1)  the amendments in Subsection 76-10-501(1) of this bill merge into the enacted Section76-10-500 of S.B. 91; and    (2)  the definitions in Subsection 76-10-501(2) of this bill be merged into Section 76-10-501of S.B. 91.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0122.ZIP 14,452 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 122 Enrolled





            

    
AMENDMENTS FOR DANGEROUS WEAPONS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Michael G. Waddoups

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO PUBLIC SAFETY AND THE JUDICIAL CODE; PROVIDING
            

    
CROSS REFERENCES TO RESTRICTED AREAS; AUTHORIZING RULEMAKING
            

    
AUTHORITY TO THE OLYMPIC LAW ENFORCEMENT COMMANDER TO DESIGNATE
            

    
SECURE AREAS AT OLYMPIC VENUES, PROVIDE NOTICE OF WEAPONS AND
            

    
EXPLOSIVE RESTRICTIONS; RESTRICTING WEAPONS, INCLUDING CONCEALED
            

    
WEAPONS, AND EXPLOSIVES IN SECURE AREAS AT OLYMPIC VENUES; ENACTING
            

    
PROVISIONS REGARDING LIABILITY FOR CERTAIN INJURIES IN OLYMPIC VENUES;
            

    
PRESCRIBING PENALTIES; PROVIDING A REPEALER FOR THE OLYMPIC PROVISIONS;
            

    
AMENDING WHEN THE LAW ENFORCEMENT AND TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION
            

    
MAY TAKE ACTION REGARDING A CONCEALED FIREARM PERMIT; AMENDING
            

    
UNIFORM LAW PROVISIONS RELATING TO WEAPONS; PROVIDING DEFINITIONS;
            

    
RESTRICTING FIREARMS IN HOUSES OF WORSHIP AND IN PRIVATE RESIDENCES IN
            

    
CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES; PRESCRIBING PENALTIES; MAKING TECHNICAL
            

    
CORRECTIONS; AND PROVIDING A COORDINATION CLAUSE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     53-5-704, as last amended by Chapters 13, 187 and 404, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     53-5-710, as enacted by Chapter 117, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     76-10-501, as last amended by Chapter 263, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     53-12-301.1, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     63-55b-153, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     63-55b-176, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     76-10-530, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
     76-10-531, Utah Code Annotated 1953

            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
53-5-704

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53-5-704.  Division duties -- Permit to carry concealed firearm -- Requirements for
            

    
 issuance -- Violation -- Denial, suspension, or revocation -- Appeal procedure.
            

    
    (1)  The division or its designated agent shall issue a permit to carry a concealed firearm for
            

    
lawful self defense to an applicant who is 21 years of age or older within 60 days after receiving an
            

    
application and upon proof that the person applying is of good character.  The permit is valid
            

    
throughout the state, without restriction except as provided by Section 

53-5-710

:
            

    
    (a)  for two years; or
            

    
    (b)  for five years for permits issued or renewed on or after May 1, 1998.
            

    
    (2)  An applicant satisfactorily demonstrates good character if he:
            

    
    (a)  has not been convicted of a felony;
            

    
    (b)  has not been convicted of any crime of violence;
            

    
    (c)  has not been convicted of any offenses involving the use of alcohol;
            

    
    (d)  has not been convicted of any offense involving the unlawful use of narcotics or other
            

    
controlled substances;
            

    
    (e)  has not been convicted of any offenses involving moral turpitude;
            

    
    (f)  has not been convicted of any offense involving domestic violence;
            

    
    (g)  has not been adjudicated by a court of a state or of the United States as mentally
            

    
incompetent, unless the adjudication has been withdrawn or reversed;
            

    
    (h)  is qualified to purchase and possess a dangerous weapon and a handgun pursuant to
            

    
Section 

76-10-503

 and federal law.
            

    
    (3) (a)  The division may deny, suspend, or revoke a concealed firearm permit if the licensing
            

    
authority has reasonable cause to believe that the applicant has been or is a danger to self or others
            

    
as demonstrated by evidence including, but not limited to:
            

    
    (i)  past pattern of behavior involving unlawful violence or threats of unlawful violence;
            

    
    (ii)  past participation in incidents involving unlawful violence or threats of unlawful
            

    
violence; or

- 2 -

            

    
    (iii)  conviction of any offense in violation of Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5, Weapons.
            

    
    (b)  The division may not deny, suspend, or revoke a concealed firearm permit solely for a
            

    
single conviction for an infraction violation of Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5, Weapons.
            

    
    [(b)] (c)  In determining whether the applicant has been or is a danger to self or others, the
            

    
division may inspect:
            

    
    (i)  expunged records of arrests and convictions of adults as provided in Section 

77-18-15

;
            

    
and
            

    
    (ii)  juvenile court records as provided in Section 

78-3a-206

.
            

    
    [(c)] (d) (i)  If a person granted a permit under this part has been charged with a crime of
            

    
violence in Utah or any other state, the division shall suspend the permit.
            

    
    (ii)  Upon notice of the acquittal of the person charged, or notice of the charges having been
            

    
dropped, the division shall immediately reinstate the suspended permit.
            

    
    (4)  A former peace officer who departs full-time employment as a peace officer, in an
            

    
honorable manner, shall be issued a concealed firearm permit within five years of that departure if
            

    
the officer meets the requirements of this section.
            

    
    (5)  In assessing good character under Subsection (2), the licensing authority shall consider
            

    
mitigating circumstances.
            

    
    (6)  The licensing authority shall also require the applicant to provide:
            

    
    (a)  letters of character reference;
            

    
    (b)  two recent dated photographs;
            

    
    (c)  two sets of fingerprints;
            

    
    (d)  a five-year employment history;
            

    
    (e)  a five-year residential history; and
            

    
    (f)  evidence of general familiarity with the types of firearms to be concealed as defined in
            

    
Subsection (7).
            

    
    (7) (a)  General familiarity with the types of firearms to be concealed includes training in:
            

    
    (i)  the safe loading, unloading, storage, and carrying of the types of firearms to be concealed;
            

    
and

- 3 -

            

    
    (ii)  current laws defining lawful use of a firearm by a private citizen, including lawful
            

    
self-defense, use of deadly force, transportation, and concealment.
            

    
    (b)  Evidence of general familiarity with the types of firearms to be concealed may be
            

    
satisfied by one of the following:
            

    
    (i)  completion of a course of instruction conducted by any national, state, or local firearms
            

    
training organization approved by the division;
            

    
    (ii)  certification of general familiarity by a person who has been approved by the division,
            

    
which may include a law enforcement officer, military or civilian firearms instructor, or hunter safety
            

    
instructor; or
            

    
    (iii)  equivalent experience with a firearm through participation in an organized shooting
            

    
competition, law enforcement, or military service.
            

    
    (8)  In issuing a permit under this part, the licensing authority is not vicariously liable for
            

    
damages caused by the permit holder.
            

    
    (9)  If any person knowingly and willfully provides false information on an application filed
            

    
under this part, he is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and his application may be denied, or his
            

    
permit may be suspended or revoked.
            

    
    (10) (a)  In the event of a denial, suspension, or revocation by the agency, the applicant may
            

    
file a petition for review with the board within 60 days from the date the denial, suspension, or
            

    
revocation is received by the applicant by certified mail, return receipt requested.
            

    
    (b)  The denial of a permit shall be in writing and shall include the general reasons for the
            

    
action.
            

    
    (c)  If an applicant appeals his denial to the review board, the applicant may have access to
            

    
the evidence upon which the denial is based in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 2, Government
            

    
Records Access and Management Act.
            

    
    (d)  On appeal to the board, the agency shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance
            

    
of the evidence.
            

    
    (e)  Upon a ruling by the board on the appeal of a denial, the division shall issue a final order
            

    
within 30 days stating the board's decision.  The final order shall be in the form prescribed by

- 4 -

            

    
Subsection 

63-46b-5

(1)(i).  The final order is final agency action for purposes of judicial review
            

    
under Section 

63-46b-15

.
            

    
    (11)  The commissioner may make rules in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah
            

    
Administrative Rulemaking Act, necessary to administer this chapter.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
53-5-710

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53-5-710.  Cross-references to concealed firearm permit restrictions.
            

    
    A person with a permit to carry a concealed firearm may not carry a concealed firearm in the
            

    
following locations:
            

    
    (1)  any secure area prescribed in Section 

76-10-523.5

 in which firearms are prohibited and
            

    
notice of the prohibition posted; [and]
            

    
    (2)  in any airport secure area as provided in Section 

76-10-529

;
            

    
    (3)  in any house of worship or in any private residence where dangerous weapons are
            

    
prohibited as provided in Section 

76-10-530

; or
            

    
    (4)  at an Olympic venue secure area in violation of Section 

76-10-531

.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
53-12-301.1

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     53-12-301.1.  Olympic venue secure areas -- Restrictions -- Rulemaking authority ----
            

    
 Notice -- Responsibilities -- Liability.
            

    
    (1)  For purposes of this section and Section 

76-10-531

, "Olympic venues" means a specific
            

    
location:
            

    
    (a)  that is secured by a perimeter and public access is controlled; and
            

    
    (b)  where spectators view Olympic events; or
            

    
    (c)  designated for media or official athlete housing not open to the general public.
            

    
    (2)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
            

    
Olympic law enforcement commander designated in Section 

53-12-301

 shall make rules:
            

    
    (a)  designating the locations of secure areas within Olympic venues where a firearm,
            

    
ammunition, dangerous weapon, or explosive, chemical, or incendiary device is prohibited between
            

    
January 25, 2002, and April 1, 2002;
            

    
    (b)  providing notice that a reasonable person would understand regarding:

- 5 -

            

    
    (i)  the locations of the Olympic venue secure areas where the items in Subsection (1)(a) are
            

    
prohibited;
            

    
    (ii)  the locations of public access entrances and exits to the Olympic venue secure areas; and
            

    
    (iii)  the locations of secure weapons storage areas;
            

    
    (iv)  the penalty for violating Section 

76-10-531

, restriction of dangerous weapons in
            

    
Olympic venue secure areas; and
            

    
    (c)  designating persons authorized to carry weapons into Olympic venues, including those
            

    
persons exempted by Subsection 

76-10-523

(1).
            

    
    (3)  The notice in Subsection (1)(b) shall include:
            

    
    (a)  written notice provided to a person at the time the person receives tickets to events at
            

    
Olympic venue secure areas; and
            

    
    (b)  at least one notice prominently displayed at each entrance to every Olympic venue secure
            

    
area in which a dangerous weapon or explosive is prohibited.
            

    
    (4)  The Olympic law enforcement commander:
            

    
    (a)  shall use reasonable means, which may include mechanical, electronic, x-ray, or any
            

    
other device to detect dangerous weapons or explosives concealed in or upon the person of any
            

    
individual attempting to enter an Olympic venue secure area;
            

    
    (b)  may provide secure weapons storage areas so that persons may store their weapons prior
            

    
to entering an Olympic venue secure area; and
            

    
    (c)  shall provide instructions to personnel operating an Olympic venue secure area that, upon
            

    
discovery of a firearm possessed by a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm, the personnel
            

    
may:
            

    
    (i)  require the person to deliver the firearm to a secure weapons storage area permitted by
            

    
Subsection (3)(b); or
            

    
    (ii)  require the person to exit the Olympic venue secure area.
            

    
    (5)  A cause of action may be maintained against the state for any injury where an individual
            

    
can establish by clear and convincing evidence that:
            

    
    (a)  if a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm had been able to access the concealed

- 6 -

            

    
firearm the injury would not have occurred to that individual or others; and
            

    
    (b)  the individual suffered damages as a consequence.
            

    
    (6)  Nothing in Subsection (5) modifies or amends Title 63, Chapter 30, Governmental
            

    
Immunity Act.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
63-55b-153

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     63-55b-153.   Repeal date -- Title 53.
            

    
    (1)  Subsection 

53-5-710

(4) pertaining to restrictions at Olympic venue secure areas is
            

    
repealed April 1, 2002.
            

    
    (2)  Section 

53-12-301.1

 is repealed April 1, 2002.
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
63-55b-176

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     63-55b-176.  Repeal date -- Title 76.
            

    
    Section 

76-10-531

 is repealed April 1, 2002.
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
76-10-501

 is amended to read:
            

    
     76-10-501.  Definitions.
            

    
    (1) (a)  The individual right to keep and bear arms being a constitutionally protected right,
            

    
the Legislature finds the need to provide uniform laws throughout the state.  Except as specifically
            

    
provided by state law, a citizen of the United States or a lawfully admitted alien shall not be:
            

    
    (i)  prohibited from owning, possessing, purchasing, selling, transferring, transporting, or
            

    
keeping any firearm at his place of residence, property, business, or in any vehicle lawfully in his
            

    
possession or lawfully under his control; or
            

    
    (ii)  required to have a permit or license to purchase, own, possess, transport, or keep a
            

    
firearm.
            

    
    (b)  This part is uniformly applicable throughout this state and in all its political subdivisions
            

    
and municipalities.   All authority to regulate  firearms shall be reserved to the state except where
            

    
the Legislature specifically delegates responsibility to local authorities or state entities.  Unless
            

    
specifically authorized by the Legislature by statute, a local authority or state entity may not enact
            

    
or enforce any ordinance, regulation, or rule pertaining to firearms.
            

    
    (2)  As used in this part:

- 7 -

            

    
    (a) (i)  "Concealed dangerous weapon" means a dangerous weapon that is covered, hidden,
            

    
or secreted in a manner that the public would not be aware of its presence and is readily accessible
            

    
for immediate use.
            

    
    (ii) A dangerous weapon shall not be considered a concealed dangerous weapon if it is a
            

    
firearm which is unloaded and is securely encased.
            

    
    (b)  "Crime of violence" means aggravated murder, murder, manslaughter, rape, mayhem,
            

    
kidnapping, robbery, burglary, housebreaking, extortion, or blackmail accompanied by threats of
            

    
violence, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault with intent to commit any offense punishable by
            

    
imprisonment for more than one year, arson punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, or
            

    
an attempt to commit any of these offenses.
            

    
    (c)  "Criminal history background check" means a criminal background check conducted by
            

    
a licensed firearms dealer on every purchaser of a handgun through the division or the local law
            

    
enforcement agency where the firearms dealer conducts business.
            

    
    (d)  "Dangerous weapon" means any item that in the manner of its use or intended use is
            

    
capable of causing death or serious bodily injury.  The following factors shall be used in determining
            

    
whether a knife, or any other item, object, or thing not commonly known as a dangerous weapon is
            

    
a dangerous weapon:
            

    
    (i)  the character of the instrument, object, or thing;
            

    
    (ii)  the character of the wound produced, if any; 
            

    
    (iii)  the manner in which the instrument, object, or thing was used; and
            

    
    (iv)  the other lawful purposes for which the instrument, object, or thing may be used.
            

    
    (e)  "Dealer" means every person who is licensed under crimes and criminal procedure, 18
            

    
U.S.C. 923 and engaged in the business of selling, leasing, or otherwise transferring a handgun,
            

    
whether the person is a retail or wholesale dealer, pawnbroker, or otherwise.
            

    
    (f)  "Division" means the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division of the
            

    
Department of Public Safety, created in Section 

53-10-103

.
            

    
    (g)  "Enter" means intrusion of the entire body.
            

    
    [(g)] (h)  "Firearm" means a pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed-off  shotgun, rifle or sawed-off

- 8 -

            

    
rifle, or any device that could be used as a dangerous weapon from which is expelled a projectile by 
            

    
action of an explosive.
            

    
    (i)  "Firearms transaction record form" means a form created by the division to be completed
            

    
by a person purchasing, selling, or transferring a handgun from a dealer in the state.
            

    
    [(h)] (j)  "Fully automatic weapon" means any firearm which fires, is designed to fire, or can
            

    
be readily restored to fire, automatically more than one shot without manual reloading by a single
            

    
function of the trigger.
            

    
    [(j)] (k)  "Handgun" means a pistol, revolver, or other firearm of any description, loaded or
            

    
unloaded, from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged, the length of which, not
            

    
including any revolving, detachable, or magazine breech, does not exceed 12 inches.
            

    
    (l)  "House of worship" means a church, temple, synagogue, mosque, or other building set
            

    
apart primarily for the purpose of worship in which religious services are held and the main body of
            

    
which is kept for that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with its primary purpose.
            

    
    [(k)] (m)  "Prohibited area" means any place where it is unlawful to discharge a firearm.
            

    
    [(l)] (n)  "Readily accessible for immediate use" means that a firearm or other dangerous
            

    
weapon is carried on the person or within such close proximity and in such a manner that it can be
            

    
retrieved and used as readily as if carried on the person.
            

    
    (o)  "Residence" means an improvement to real property used or occupied as a primary or
            

    
secondary residence.
            

    
    [(m)] (p)  "Sawed-off shotgun" or "sawed-off rifle" means a shotgun having a barrel or
            

    
barrels of fewer than 18 inches in length, or in the case of a rifle, having a barrel or barrels of fewer
            

    
than 16 inches in length, or any dangerous weapon made from a rifle or shotgun by alteration,
            

    
modification, or otherwise, if the weapon as modified has an overall length of fewer than 26 inches.
            

    
    [(n)] (q)  "Securely encased" means not readily accessible for immediate use, such as held
            

    
in a gun rack, or in a closed case or container, whether or not locked, or in a trunk or other storage
            

    
area of a motor vehicle, not including a glove box or console box.
            

    
    (r)  "State entity" means each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution,
            

    
officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory, library, unit, bureau,

- 9 -

            

    
panel, or other administrative unit of the state.
            

    
    Section 7.  
Section  
76-10-530

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     76-10-530.  Trespass with a firearm in a house of worship or private residence -- Notice
            

    
 -- Penalty.
            

    
    (1)  A person, including a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to Title 53,
            

    
Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Weapon Act, after having received notice as provided in Subsection
            

    
(2) that firearms are prohibited, may not knowingly and intentionally:
            

    
    (a)  transport a firearm into:
            

    
    (i)  a house of worship; or
            

    
    (ii)  a private residence; or
            

    
    (b)  while in possession of a firearm, enter or remain in:
            

    
    (i)  a house of worship; or
            

    
    (ii)  a private residence.
            

    
    (2)  Notice that firearms are prohibited may be made by:
            

    
    (a)  personal communication to the actor by:
            

    
    (i)  the church or organization operating the house of worship;
            

    
    (ii)  the owner, lessee, or person with lawful right of possession of the private residence; or
            

    
    (iii)  a person with authority to act for the person or entity in Subsections (2)(a)(i) and (ii);
            

    
or
            

    
    (b)  posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of persons entering the house
            

    
of worship or private residence.
            

    
    (3)  Nothing in this section permits an owner who has granted the lawful right of possession
            

    
to a renter or lessee to restrict the renter or lessee from lawfully possessing a firearm in the residence.
            

    
    (4)  A violation of this section is an infraction.
            

    
    Section 8.  
Section  
76-10-531

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     76-10-531.  Restricting dangerous weapons and explosives in Olympic venue secure
            

    
 areas -- Penalty -- Defense.
            

    
    (1)  A person, including a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to Title 53,

- 10 -

            

    
Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Weapon Act, may not knowingly and intentionally transport  into an
            

    
Olympic venue secure area, designated by rule pursuant to Section 

53-12-301.1

:
            

    
    (a)  a firearm, ammunition, or dangerous weapon; or
            

    
    (b)  an explosive, chemical, or incendiary device, as those terms are defined in Section
            

    


76-10-306

.
            

    
    (2)  A violation of this section is:
            

    
    (a)  a class B misdemeanor if the violation is with a firearm, ammunition, or dangerous
            

    
weapon; or
            

    
    (b)  a first degree felony if the violation is with an explosive, chemical, or incendiary device.
            

    
    (3)  It is a defense to any prosecution under this section that the accused, in committing the
            

    
act made criminal by this section, acted in conformity with the rules authorized by Section
            

    


53-12-301.1

.
            

    
    Section 9.   Coordination clause.
            

    
    If this bill and S.B. 91, Weapons - Technical Amendments, both pass, it is the intent of the
            

    
Legislature that:
            

    
    (1)  the amendments in Subsection 76-10-501(1) of this bill merge into the enacted Section
            

    
76-10-500 of S.B. 91; and
            

    
    (2)  the definitions in Subsection 76-10-501(2) of this bill be merged into Section 76-10-501
            

    
of S.B. 91.

- 11 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







