Sponsors: []Modifications:     13-29-1.This chapter shall be known as the "Uniform Management of Institutional Funds Act."    13-29-2.As used in this chapter:(1)  "Endowment fund" means an institutional fund, or any part of it, not whollyexpendable by the institution on a current basis under the terms of the applicable gift instrument.(2)  "Gift instrument" means a will, deed, grant, conveyance, agreement, memorandum,writing, or other governing document, including the terms of any institutional solicitations fromwhich an institutional fund resulted, under which property is transferred to or held by an institutionas an institutional fund.(3)  "Governing board" means the body responsible for the management of an institution orof an institutional fund.(4) (a)  "Historic dollar value" means the aggregate fair value in dollars of:(i)  an endowment fund at the time it became an endowment fund;(ii)  each subsequent donation to the fund at the time it is made; and(iii)  each accumulation made pursuant to a direction in the applicable gift instrument at thetime the accumulation is added to the fund.(b)  The determination of historic dollar value made in good faith by the institution isconclusive.(5)  "Institution" means an incorporated or unincorporated organization organized andoperated exclusively for educational, religious, charitable, or other eleemosynary purposes, or agovernmental organization to the extent that it holds funds exclusively for any of these purposes.(6)  "Institutional fund" means a fund held by an institution for its exclusive use, benefit, orpurposes, but does not include:(a)  a fund held for an institution by a trustee that is not an institution; or(b)  a fund in which a beneficiary that is not an institution has an interest other than possiblerights that could arise upon violation or failure of the purposes of the fund.    13-29-3.(1)  The governing board may appropriate for expenditure for the uses and purposes forwhich an endowment fund is established as much of the net appreciation, realized and unrealized,in the fair value of the assets of an endowment fund over the historic dollar value of the fund as isprudent under the standard established by Section 13-29-7.(2)  Unless affirmatively appropriated by the governing board, the net appreciation, realizedand unrealized, in the fair value of the assets of an endowment fund over the historic dollar value ofthe fund may not be used or available for use for operating expenses.  Net appreciation from fundsnot otherwise donor restricted shall be considered restricted by operation of this chapter.(3)  This section does not limit the authority of the governing board to expend funds aspermitted under other law, the terms of the applicable gift instrument, or the charter of theinstitution.    13-29-4.(1)  Section 13-29-3 does not apply if the applicable gift instrument indicates the donor'sintention that net appreciation may not be expended.(2)  A restriction upon the expenditure of net appreciation may not be implied from adesignation of a gift as an endowment, or from a direction or authorization in the applicable giftinstrument to use only "income," "interest," "dividends," or "rents, issues, or profits," or "to preservethe principal intact," or a direction which contains other words of similar meaning.(3)  This rule of construction applies to gift instruments executed or in effect after May 5,1997.(4)  Nothing in Section 13-29-3 or this section may be construed to require any institutionor governing board to treat net appreciation, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of the assets ofan endowment fund over the historic dollar value of the fund as income or revenue from operationsfor the purpose of ascertaining net financial results from operation or as unrestricted assets.    13-29-5.In addition to an investment otherwise authorized by law or by the applicable gift instrument,and without restriction to investments a fiduciary may make, the governing board, subject to anyspecific limitations set forth in the applicable gift instrument or in Title 51, Chapter 7, State MoneyManagement Act, for governmental organizations or in the applicable law other than law relatingto investments by a fiduciary, may:(1)  invest and reinvest an institutional fund in any real or personal property consideredadvisable by the governing board, whether or not it produces a current return, including mortgages,stocks, bonds, debentures, and other securities of profit or nonprofit corporations, shares in orobligations of associations, partnerships, or individuals, and obligations of any state government orpolitical subdivision;(2)  retain property contributed by a donor to an institutional fund for as long as thegoverning board considers advisable;(3)  include all or any part of an institutional fund in any pooled or common fund maintainedby the institution; and(4)  invest all or any part of an institutional fund in any other pooled or common fundavailable for investment, including shares or interests in regulated investment companies, mutualfunds, common trust funds, investment partnerships, real estate investment trusts, or similarorganizations in which funds are commingled and investment determinations are made by personsother than the governing board.    13-29-6.Except as otherwise provided by the applicable gift instrument or by applicable law relatingto governmental institutions or funds, the governing board may:(1)  delegate to its committees, officers or employees of the institution or the fund, or agents,including investment counsel, the authority to act in place of the board in investment andreinvestment of institutional funds;(2)  contract with independent investment advisors, investment counsel or managers, banks,or trust companies, to invest and reinvest institutional funds; and(3)  authorize the payment of compensation for investment advisory or management services.    13-29-7.In the administration of the powers to appropriate appreciation, to make and retaininvestments, and to delegate investment management of institutional funds, members of thegoverning board shall exercise ordinary business care and prudence under the facts andcircumstances prevailing at the time of the action or decision.  In doing so they shall consider thelong and short-term needs of the institution in carrying out its educational, religious, charitable, orother eleemosynary purposes, its present and anticipated financial requirements, expected total returnon its investments, price level trends, and general economic conditions.    13-29-8.(1)  With the written consent of the donor, the governing board may release, in whole or inpart, a restriction imposed by the applicable gift instrument on the use or investment of aninstitutional fund.(2)  If written consent of the donor cannot be obtained by reason of his death, disability,unavailability, or impossibility of identification, the governing board may apply in the name of theinstitution to the district court for release of a restriction imposed by the applicable gift instrumenton the use or investment of an institutional fund.  The attorney general shall be notified by thegoverning board of this application and shall be given an opportunity to be heard.  If the court findsthat the restriction is obsolete, inappropriate, or impracticable, it may by order release the restrictionin whole or in part.  A release under this section may not change an endowment fund to a fund thatis not an endowment fund.(3)  A release under this section may not allow a fund to be used for purposes other than theeducational, religious, charitable, or other eleemosynary purposes of the institution affected.(4)  This section does not limit the application of the doctrine of cy pres.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0165.ZIP 10,061 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 165 Enrolled








 
    MANAGEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL FUNDS ACT




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Lyle W. Hillyard


    AN ACT RELATING TO COMMERCE AND TRADE; CREATING THE UNIFORM

    MANAGEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL FUNDS ACT; REGULATING TRUST FUNDS

    FOR GIFTS RECEIVED BY CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    ENACTS:

         13-29-1, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-2, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-3, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-4, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-5, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-6, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-7, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         13-29-8, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  13-29-1 is enacted to read:

     CHAPTER 29.  UNIFORM MANAGEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL FUNDS ACT


         13-29-1.  Title.

        This chapter shall be known as the "Uniform Management of Institutional Funds Act."

        Section 2.  Section  13-29-2 is enacted to read:

         13-29-2.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Endowment fund" means an institutional fund, or any part of it, not wholly

    expendable by the institution on a current basis under the terms of the applicable gift instrument.

        (2)  "Gift instrument" means a will, deed, grant, conveyance, agreement, memorandum,

    writing, or other governing document, including the terms of any institutional solicitations from


    which an institutional fund resulted, under which property is transferred to or held by an institution

    as an institutional fund.

        (3)  "Governing board" means the body responsible for the management of an institution or

    of an institutional fund.

        (4) (a)  "Historic dollar value" means the aggregate fair value in dollars of:

        (i)  an endowment fund at the time it became an endowment fund;

        (ii)  each subsequent donation to the fund at the time it is made; and

        (iii)  each accumulation made pursuant to a direction in the applicable gift instrument at the

    time the accumulation is added to the fund. 

        (b)  The determination of historic dollar value made in good faith by the institution is

    conclusive.

        (5)  "Institution" means an incorporated or unincorporated organization organized and

    operated exclusively for educational, religious, charitable, or other eleemosynary purposes, or a

    governmental organization to the extent that it holds funds exclusively for any of these purposes.

        (6)  "Institutional fund" means a fund held by an institution for its exclusive use, benefit, or

    purposes, but does not include:

        (a)  a fund held for an institution by a trustee that is not an institution; or

        (b)  a fund in which a beneficiary that is not an institution has an interest other than possible

    rights that could arise upon violation or failure of the purposes of the fund.

        Section 3.  Section  13-29-3 is enacted to read:

         13-29-3.  Appropriation of appreciation.

        (1)  The governing board may appropriate for expenditure for the uses and purposes for

    which an endowment fund is established as much of the net appreciation, realized and unrealized,

    in the fair value of the assets of an endowment fund over the historic dollar value of the fund as is

    prudent under the standard established by Section 13-29-7.

        (2)  Unless affirmatively appropriated by the governing board, the net appreciation, realized

    and unrealized, in the fair value of the assets of an endowment fund over the historic dollar value of

    the fund may not be used or available for use for operating expenses.  Net appreciation from funds

- 2 -


    not otherwise donor restricted shall be considered restricted by operation of this chapter.

        (3)  This section does not limit the authority of the governing board to expend funds as

    permitted under other law, the terms of the applicable gift instrument, or the charter of the

    institution.

        Section 4.  Section  13-29-4 is enacted to read:

         13-29-4.  Rule of construction.

        (1)  Section 13-29-3 does not apply if the applicable gift instrument indicates the donor's

    intention that net appreciation may not be expended.

        (2)  A restriction upon the expenditure of net appreciation may not be implied from a

    designation of a gift as an endowment, or from a direction or authorization in the applicable gift

    instrument to use only "income," "interest," "dividends," or "rents, issues, or profits," or "to preserve

    the principal intact," or a direction which contains other words of similar meaning.

        (3)  This rule of construction applies to gift instruments executed or in effect after May 5,

    1997.

        (4)  Nothing in Section 13-29-3 or this section may be construed to require any institution

    or governing board to treat net appreciation, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of the assets of

    an endowment fund over the historic dollar value of the fund as income or revenue from operations

    for the purpose of ascertaining net financial results from operation or as unrestricted assets.

        Section 5.  Section  13-29-5 is enacted to read:

         13-29-5.  Investment authority.

        In addition to an investment otherwise authorized by law or by the applicable gift instrument,

    and without restriction to investments a fiduciary may make, the governing board, subject to any

    specific limitations set forth in the applicable gift instrument or in Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money

    Management Act, for governmental organizations or in the applicable law other than law relating

    to investments by a fiduciary, may:

        (1)  invest and reinvest an institutional fund in any real or personal property considered

    advisable by the governing board, whether or not it produces a current return, including mortgages,

    stocks, bonds, debentures, and other securities of profit or nonprofit corporations, shares in or

- 3 -


    obligations of associations, partnerships, or individuals, and obligations of any state government or

    political subdivision;

        (2)  retain property contributed by a donor to an institutional fund for as long as the

    governing board considers advisable;

        (3)  include all or any part of an institutional fund in any pooled or common fund maintained

    by the institution; and

        (4)  invest all or any part of an institutional fund in any other pooled or common fund

    available for investment, including shares or interests in regulated investment companies, mutual

    funds, common trust funds, investment partnerships, real estate investment trusts, or similar

    organizations in which funds are commingled and investment determinations are made by persons

    other than the governing board.

        Section 6.  Section  13-29-6 is enacted to read:

         13-29-6.  Delegation of investment management.

        Except as otherwise provided by the applicable gift instrument or by applicable law relating

    to governmental institutions or funds, the governing board may:

        (1)  delegate to its committees, officers or employees of the institution or the fund, or agents,

    including investment counsel, the authority to act in place of the board in investment and

    reinvestment of institutional funds;

        (2)  contract with independent investment advisors, investment counsel or managers, banks,

    or trust companies, to invest and reinvest institutional funds; and

        (3)  authorize the payment of compensation for investment advisory or management services.

        Section 7.  Section  13-29-7 is enacted to read:

         13-29-7.  Standard of conduct.

        In the administration of the powers to appropriate appreciation, to make and retain

    investments, and to delegate investment management of institutional funds, members of the

    governing board shall exercise ordinary business care and prudence under the facts and

    circumstances prevailing at the time of the action or decision.  In doing so they shall consider the

    long and short-term needs of the institution in carrying out its educational, religious, charitable, or

- 4 -


    other eleemosynary purposes, its present and anticipated financial requirements, expected total return

    on its investments, price level trends, and general economic conditions.

        Section 8.  Section  13-29-8 is enacted to read:

         13-29-8.  Release of restriction on use or investment.

        (1)  With the written consent of the donor, the governing board may release, in whole or in

    part, a restriction imposed by the applicable gift instrument on the use or investment of an

    institutional fund.

        (2)  If written consent of the donor cannot be obtained by reason of his death, disability,

    unavailability, or impossibility of identification, the governing board may apply in the name of the

    institution to the district court for release of a restriction imposed by the applicable gift instrument

    on the use or investment of an institutional fund.  The attorney general shall be notified by the

    governing board of this application and shall be given an opportunity to be heard.  If the court finds

    that the restriction is obsolete, inappropriate, or impracticable, it may by order release the restriction

    in whole or in part.  A release under this section may not change an endowment fund to a fund that

    is not an endowment fund.

        (3)  A release under this section may not allow a fund to be used for purposes other than the

    educational, religious, charitable, or other eleemosynary purposes of the institution affected.

        (4)  This section does not limit the application of the doctrine of cy pres.

- 5 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







