Sponsors: []Modifications: :(a)  a;(b)  a child of a licensed or certified residential child care provider who is under the ageof four; and(c)  a child of an employee or owner of a licensed child care center who is under the ageof four.the following 13:(a)  two child care consumers;(b)  two licensed residential child care providers;(c)  one certified residential child care provider;(d)  five representatives of licensed child care center programs;(e)  one individual with expertise in early childhood development; and(f)  two health care providers.AppointmentsAppointments and reappointments may bestaggered so that 1/4 of the committee changes each year.Seven(4)  Notwithstanding the definition of "child" in Subsection 

26-39-102

(1), the departmentshall count children under the age of 14 toward the minimum square footage requirement for indoorand outdoor areas, including the child of:(a)  a licensed residential child care provider; or(b)  an owner or employee of a licensed child care center.:(I)and(II)  to screen for a substantiated finding of child abuse or neglect pursuant to Section

62A-4a-116

;(b) a certified residential child care provider may not provide care to more than two childrenunder the age of two; andFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0167.ZIP 9,729 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 167 Enrolled





            

    
CHILD CARE LICENSING AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Leonard M. Blackham

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO HEALTH; AMENDING THE MAKE UP OF THE CHILD CARE
            

    
ADVISORY COMMITTEE; CLARIFYING WHEN A PROVIDER'S CHILDREN ARE
            

    
COUNTED FOR LICENSING AND CERTIFICATE PURPOSES; PROHIBITING A
            

    
CERTIFIED RESIDENTIAL CHILD CARE PROVIDER FROM TAKING CARE OF MORE
            

    
THAN TWO CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF TWO; AND MAKING TECHNICAL AND
            

    
CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     26-39-102, as last amended by Chapter 158, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     26-39-103, as last amended by Chapter 143, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     26-39-104, as last amended by Chapters 143 and 158, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     26-39-105.5, as enacted by Chapter 158, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
26-39-102

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-39-102.  Definitions.
            

    
    As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Child" means [the]:
            

    
    (a)  a child of a person other than the provider of child care[.];
            

    
    (b)  a child of a licensed or certified residential child care provider who is under the age
            

    
of four; and
            

    
    (c)  a child of an employee or owner of a licensed child care center who is under the age
            

    
of four.
            

    
    (2)  "Child care" means continuous care and supervision of five or more children under 14
            

    
years of age, in lieu of care ordinarily provided by parents in their own home, for less than 24
            

    
hours a day, for direct or indirect compensation.

            

    
    (3)  "Child care program" means a child care facility or program operated by a person
            

    
pursuant to a license issued in accordance with this chapter.
            

    
    (4)  "Residential child care" means child care provided in the home of a provider.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
26-39-103

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-39-103.  Child Care Licensing Advisory Committee.
            

    
    (1)  There is established the Child Care Licensing Advisory Committee to advise the
            

    
department on rules promulgated by the department pursuant to this chapter.  It shall be composed
            

    
of [nine] the following 13 members who shall be appointed by the executive director[.  Two
            

    
members shall represent consumers of child care programs licensed pursuant to this chapter, four
            

    
members shall be providers licensed pursuant to this chapter at least two of whom shall be facility
            

    
owner-operators, two members shall be health care providers, and one member shall be an individual
            

    
with expertise in early childhood development.]:
            

    
    (a)  two child care consumers;
            

    
    (b)  two licensed residential child care providers;
            

    
    (c)  one certified residential child care provider;
            

    
    (d)  five representatives of licensed child care center programs;
            

    
    (e)  one individual with expertise in early childhood development; and
            

    
    (f)  two health care providers.
            

    
    (2)  [Of the initial members of the Child Care Licensing Advisory Committee, the executive
            

    
director shall appoint three to four-year terms, three to three-year terms, and three to two-year terms. 
            

    
Thereafter, appointments] Appointments shall be for four-year terms, except for those members who
            

    
have been appointed to complete an unexpired term.  Appointments and reappointments may be
            

    
staggered so that 1/4 of the committee changes each year.  The committee shall annually elect a
            

    
chairman from its membership.
            

    
    (3)  The advisory committee shall meet at least quarterly, or more frequently as determined
            

    
by the executive director, the chairman, or three or more members of the committee.  [Five] Seven
            

    
members constitute a quorum and a vote of the majority of the members present constitutes an action
            

    
of the committee.

- 2 -

            

    
    (4)  Advisory committee members shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary
            

    
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as established by the director of the Division
            

    
of Finance, pursuant to Section 

63A-3-107

.  Advisory committee members may decline
            

    
reimbursement.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
26-39-104

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-39-104.  Duties of the department.
            

    
    (1)  With regard to child care programs licensed pursuant to this chapter, the department may:
            

    
    (a)  make and enforce rules to implement the provisions of this chapter and, as necessary to
            

    
protect children's common needs for a safe and healthy environment, to provide for:
            

    
    (i)  adequate facilities and equipment; and
            

    
    (ii)  competent caregivers considering the age of the children and the type of program offered
            

    
by the licensee;
            

    
    (b)  make and enforce rules necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, in the
            

    
following areas:
            

    
    (i)  requirements for applications, the application process, and compliance with other
            

    
applicable statutes and rules;
            

    
    (ii)  documentation and policies and procedures that providers shall have in place in order
            

    
to be licensed, in accordance with Subsection (1)(a);
            

    
    (iii)  categories, classifications, and duration of initial and ongoing licenses;
            

    
    (iv)  changes of ownership or name, changes in licensure status, and changes in operational
            

    
status;
            

    
    (v)  license expiration and renewal, contents, and posting requirements;
            

    
    (vi)  procedures for inspections, complaint resolution, disciplinary actions, and other
            

    
procedural measures to encourage and assure compliance with statute and rule; and
            

    
    (vii)  guidelines necessary to assure consistency and appropriateness in the regulation and
            

    
discipline of licensees; and
            

    
    (c)  set and collect licensing and other fees in accordance with Section 

26-1-6

.
            

    
    (2)  The department may not regulate educational curricula, academic methods, or the

- 3 -

            

    
educational philosophy or approach of the provider.  The department shall allow for a broad range
            

    
of educational training and academic background in certification or qualification of child day care
            

    
directors.
            

    
    (3)  In licensing and regulating child care programs, the department shall reasonably balance
            

    
the benefits and burdens of each regulation and, by rule, provide for a range of licensure, depending
            

    
upon the needs and different levels and types of child care provided.  [The department shall prepare
            

    
language for the 1999 General Session of the Legislature to codify as much licensing regulation
            

    
implemented pursuant to this subsection as the department determines to be practicable.]
            

    
    (4)  Notwithstanding the definition of "child" in Subsection 

26-39-102

(1), the department
            

    
shall count children under the age of 14 toward the minimum square footage requirement for indoor
            

    
and outdoor areas, including the child of:
            

    
    (a)  a licensed residential child care provider; or
            

    
    (b)  an owner or employee of a licensed child care center.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
26-39-105.5

 is amended to read:
            

    
     26-39-105.5.  Residential child care certificate.
            

    
    (1) (a)  A residential child care provider of five to eight children shall obtain a Residential
            

    
Child Care Certificate from the department unless Section 

26-39-106

 applies.
            

    
    (b)  The qualifications for a Residential Child Care Certificate are limited to:
            

    
    (i)  the submission of:
            

    
    (A)  an application on a form prepared by the department;
            

    
    (B)  a certification and criminal background fee established in accordance with Section
            

    

26-1-6

; and
            

    
    (C)  identifying information described in Subsection 

26-39-107

(1) for each adult person who
            

    
resides in the provider's home:
            

    
    (I)  for processing by the Department of Public Safety to determine whether any such person
            

    
has been convicted of a crime; and
            

    
    (II)  to screen for a substantiated finding of child abuse or neglect pursuant to Section
            

    


62A-4a-116

;

- 4 -

            

    
    (ii)  an initial and annual inspection of the provider's home within 90 days of sending an
            

    
intent to inspect notice to:
            

    
    (A)  check the immunization record of each child who receives child care in the provider's
            

    
home;
            

    
    (B)  identify serious sanitation, fire, and health hazards to children; and
            

    
    (C)  make appropriate recommendations; and
            

    
    (iii)  for new providers, completion of:
            

    
    (A)  five hours of department-approved training; and
            

    
    (B)  a department-approved CPR and first aid course.
            

    
    (c)  If a serious sanitation, fire, or health hazard has been found during an inspection
            

    
conducted pursuant to Subsection (1)(b)(ii), the department may, at the option of the residential care
            

    
provider:
            

    
    (i)  require corrective action for the serious hazards found and make an unannounced follow
            

    
up inspection to determine compliance; or
            

    
    (ii)  inform the parents of each child in the care of the provider of the results of the
            

    
department's inspection and the failure of the provider to take corrective action.
            

    
    (d)  In addition to an inspection conducted pursuant to Subsection (1)(b)(ii), the department
            

    
may inspect the home of a residential care provider of five to eight children in response to a
            

    
complaint of:
            

    
    (i)  child abuse or neglect;
            

    
    (ii)  serious health hazards in or around the provider's home; or
            

    
    (iii)  providing residential child care without the appropriate certificate or license.
            

    
    (2)  Notwithstanding this section:
            

    
    (a)  a license under Section 

26-39-105

 is required of a residential child care provider who
            

    
cares for nine or more children;
            

    
    [(b)  a Residential Care Certificate under Subsection (1) is required of a residential care
            

    
provider who provides care for four or more children, based on the sum of:]
            

    
    [(i)  children under two years of age; and]

- 5 -

            

    
    [(ii)  the provider's own children under four years of age; and]
            

    
    (b) a certified residential child care provider may not provide care to more than two children
            

    
under the age of two; and
            

    
    (c)  an inspection may be required of a residential child care provider in connection with a
            

    
federal child care program.
            

    
    (3)  With respect to residential child care, the department may only make and enforce rules
            

    
necessary to implement this section.

- 6 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







