Sponsors: []Modifications: (1)  There is created the Utah State Capitol Building Centennial Task Force consisting ofthe following 11 members:(a)  three members of the Senate appointed by the president of the Senate, no more thantwo of whom may be from the same political party;(b)  three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the speaker of the Houseof Representatives, no more than two of whom may be from the same political party; and(c)  the following five members jointly appointed by the president of the Senate and thespeaker of the House of Representatives:(i)  two members from the art profession;(ii)  one member from the history profession;(iii)  one member from the architecture profession; and(iv)  one member of the public.(2) (a)  The president of the Senate shall designate a member of the Senate appointed underSubsection (1)(a) as a cochair of the task force.(b)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate a member of the Houseof Representatives appointed under Subsection (1)(b) as a cochair of the task force.(3) (a)  A majority of the members of the task force is a quorum.(b)  The action of a majority of a quorum is the action of the task force.(4) (a)  Salaries and expenses of the members of the task force who are legislators shall bepaid in accordance with Section 36-2-2 and Legislative Joint Rule 15.03.(b) (i)  Members of the task force who are not government employees shall receive nocompensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in theperformance of the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance underSections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.(5)  The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide staff support tothe task force.(1)  The task force shall review and make recommendations on the following issues:(a)  current condition of the state capitol building; and(b)  whether there are any interior or exterior areas of the capitol that are unfinished or needrefinishing.(2)  A final report, including any proposed legislation, shall be presented to the LegislativeManagement Interim Committee before November 30, 1997.There is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 1996-1997:    (1)  $4,000 to the Senate to pay for the compensation and expenses of senators on the taskforce;    (2)  $4,000 to the House of Representatives to pay for the compensation and expenses ofrepresentatives on the task force; and    (3)  $15,000 to the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel to pay for staffingthe task force.This act is repealed November 30, 1997.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0164.ZIP 8,519 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 164 Enrolled









     UTAH STATE CAPITOL BUILDING


     CENTENNIAL STUDY




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Nathan C.  Tanner


    AN ACT RELATING TO STATE AFFAIRS IN GENERAL; CREATING THE UTAH STATE

    CAPITOL BUILDING CENTENNIAL TASK FORCE; PROVIDING FOR

    MEMBERSHIP; DELINEATING RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES;

    PROVIDING A REPORTING DATE; APPROPRIATING $23,000 FROM THE

    GENERAL FUND; AND PROVIDING A REPEAL DATE.

    This act enacts uncodified material.

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.   Utah State Capitol Building Centennial Task Force -- Creation --

     Membership -- Quorum -- Staff.

        (1)  There is created the Utah State Capitol Building Centennial Task Force consisting of

    the following 11 members:

        (a)  three members of the Senate appointed by the president of the Senate, no more than

    two of whom may be from the same political party;

        (b)  three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the speaker of the House

    of Representatives, no more than two of whom may be from the same political party; and

        (c)  the following five members jointly appointed by the president of the Senate and the

    speaker of the House of Representatives:

        (i)  two members from the art profession;

        (ii)  one member from the history profession;

        (iii)  one member from the architecture profession; and

        (iv)  one member of the public.

        (2) (a)  The president of the Senate shall designate a member of the Senate appointed under

    Subsection (1)(a) as a cochair of the task force.

        (b)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate a member of the House


    of Representatives appointed under Subsection (1)(b) as a cochair of the task force.

        (3) (a)  A majority of the members of the task force is a quorum.

        (b)  The action of a majority of a quorum is the action of the task force.

        (4) (a)  Salaries and expenses of the members of the task force who are legislators shall be

    paid in accordance with Section 36-2-2 and Legislative Joint Rule 15.03.

        (b) (i)  Members of the task force who are not government employees shall receive no

    compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the

    performance of the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under

    Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.

        (5)  The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide staff support to

    the task force.

        Section 2.   Duties -- Interim report.

        (1)  The task force shall review and make recommendations on the following issues:

        (a)  current condition of the state capitol building; and

        (b)  whether there are any interior or exterior areas of the capitol that are unfinished or need

    refinishing.

        (2)  A final report, including any proposed legislation, shall be presented to the Legislative

    Management Interim Committee before November 30, 1997.

        Section 3.   Appropriation.

        There is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 1996-1997:

        (1)  $4,000 to the Senate to pay for the compensation and expenses of senators on the task

    force;

        (2)  $4,000 to the House of Representatives to pay for the compensation and expenses of

    representatives on the task force; and

        (3)  $15,000 to the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel to pay for staffing

    the task force.

        Section 4.   Repeal date.

- 2 -


        This act is repealed November 30, 1997.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







