Sponsors: []Modifications: 800(15)  "Organized user group" means an off-highway vehicle organization incorporated as anonprofit corporation in the state under Title 16, Chapter 6, "Utah Nonprofit Corporation andCo-operative Association Act," for the purpose of promoting the interests of off-highway vehiclerecreation.(16)(17)(18)(19)(20)(21)as open to off-highwayvehicle usemunicipal(2)municipalmay(3)  Liabilitynotmunicipalitydevice and except for a snowmobile, a spark arrestorpubliclyownedas grants or,or organized user grouppublicly ownedFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0106.ZIP 7,698 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 106 Enrolled





            

    
REGULATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO MOTOR VEHICLES; AMENDING CERTAIN OFF-HIGHWAY
            

    
VEHICLE PROVISIONS; PROVIDING CERTAIN DEFINITIONS; AMENDING
            

    
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTE MAPPING AND POSTING OF SIGNS; AMENDING
            

    
CERTAIN EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING PROVISIONS FOR THE USE OF
            

    
MONIES IN THE OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ACCOUNT AND MAKING TECHNICAL
            

    
CHANGES.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     41-22-2, as last amended by Chapter 1, Laws of Utah 1992
            

    
     41-22-10.1, as last amended by Chapter 21, Laws of Utah 1989
            

    
     41-22-10.7, as last amended by Chapter 363, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     41-22-19, as last amended by Chapters 281 and 363, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
41-22-2

 is amended to read:
            

    
     41-22-2.  Definitions.
            

    
    As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Advisory council" means the Off-highway Vehicle Advisory Council appointed by
            

    
the Board of Parks and Recreation.
            

    
    (2)  "All-terrain type I vehicle" means any motor vehicle 50 inches or less in width, having
            

    
an unladen dry weight of [700] 800 pounds or less, traveling on three or more low pressure tires,
            

    
having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, and designed for or capable of travel over
            

    
unimproved terrain.
            

    
    (3)  "All-terrain type II vehicle" means any other motor vehicle, not defined in Subsection
            

    
(2), (9), or (19), designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.  This term does not
            

    
include golf carts, any vehicle designed to carry a disabled person, any vehicle not specifically

            

    
designed for recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under Section 

41-1a-102

.
            

    
    (4)  "Board" means the Board of Parks and Recreation.
            

    
    (5)  "Dealer" means a person engaged in the business of selling off-highway vehicles at
            

    
wholesale or retail.
            

    
    (6)  "Division" means the Division of Parks and Recreation.
            

    
    (7)  "Low pressure tire" means any pneumatic tire six inches or more in width designed for
            

    
use on wheels with rim diameter of 12 inches or less and utilizing an operating pressure of ten
            

    
pounds per square inch or less as recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
            

    
    (8)  "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing off-highway
            

    
vehicles.
            

    
    (9)  "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the operator and
            

    
designed to travel on not more than two tires.
            

    
    (10)  "Motor vehicle" means every vehicle which is self-propelled.
            

    
    (11)  "Off-highway vehicle" means any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain type
            

    
II vehicle, or motorcycle.
            

    
    (12)  "Off-highway implement of husbandry" means every all-terrain type I vehicle,
            

    
motorcycle, or snowmobile which is used by the owner or his agent for agricultural operations.
            

    
    (13)  "Operate" means to control the movement of or otherwise use an off-highway vehicle.
            

    
    (14)  "Operator" means the person who is in actual physical control of an off-highway
            

    
vehicle.
            

    
    (15)  "Organized user group" means an off-highway vehicle organization incorporated as a
            

    
nonprofit corporation in the state under Title 16, Chapter 6, "Utah Nonprofit Corporation and
            

    
Co-operative Association Act," for the purpose of promoting the interests of off-highway vehicle
            

    
recreation.
            

    
    [(15)] (16)  "Owner" means a person, other than a person with a security interest, having a
            

    
property interest or title to an off-highway vehicle and entitled to the use and possession of that
            

    
vehicle.
            

    
    [(16)] (17)  "Public land" means land owned or administered by any federal or state agency

- 2 -

            

    
or any political subdivision of the state.
            

    
    [(17)] (18)  "Register" means the act of assigning a registration number to an off-highway
            

    
vehicle.
            

    
    [(18)] (19)  "Roadway" is used as defined in Section 

41-6-1

.
            

    
    [(19)] (20)  "Snowmobile" means any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and
            

    
steered and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners, or low pressure tires.
            

    
    [(20)] (21)  "Street or highway" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way
            

    
or place of whatever nature, when any part of it is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
41-22-10.1

 is amended to read:
            

    
     41-22-10.1.  Vehicles operated on posted public land.
            

    
    (1)  Currently registered off-highway vehicles may be operated on public land, trails, streets,
            

    
or highways that are posted by sign or designated by map or description as open to off-highway
            

    
vehicle use by the controlling federal, state, county, or [city] municipal agency[, as open to
            

    
off-highway vehicle use].
            

    
    [(2)  The Utah Division of Parks and Recreation shall meet once within six months of the
            

    
effective date of this act, with the county commissioners to explain the provisions of these sections
            

    
of the Utah Code.]
            

    
    [(3)] (2)  The controlling federal, state, county, or [city] municipal agency [shall] may:
            

    
    (a)  provide a map or description showing or describing land, trails, streets, or highways open
            

    
to off-highway vehicle use; or
            

    
    (b)  post signs designating lands, trails, streets, or highways open to off-highway vehicle use.
            

    
    [(4)  No liability] (3)  Liability may not be imposed on any federal, state, county, or [city]
            

    
municipality relating to the designation or maintenance of any land, trail, street, or highway open for
            

    
off-highway vehicle use.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
41-22-10.7

 is amended to read:
            

    
     41-22-10.7.  Vehicle equipment requirements -- Rulemaking -- Exceptions.
            

    
    (1) Except as provided under Subsection (3), an off-highway vehicle shall be equipped with:
            

    
    (a)  brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the vehicle under

- 3 -

            

    
normal operating conditions;
            

    
    (b)  headlights and taillights when operated between sunset and sunrise;
            

    
    (c)  a noise control device and except for a snowmobile, a spark arrestor device; and
            

    
    (d)  a safety flag, red or orange in color and a minimum of six by 12 inches, attached to the
            

    
off-highway vehicle at least eight feet above the surface of level ground, when operated on sand
            

    
dunes.
            

    
    (2) In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the board
            

    
may make rules which set standards for the equipment referred to in Subsection (1).
            

    
    (3)  An off-highway implement of husbandry used only in agricultural operations and not
            

    
operated on a highway, is exempt from the provisions of this section.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
41-22-19

 is amended to read:
            

    
     41-22-19.  Deposit of fees and related moneys in Off-highway Vehicle Account -- Use
            

    
 for facilities, costs and expenses of division, and education -- Request for matching funds.
            

    
    (1) Except as provided under Section 

41-22-34

, all registration fees and related moneys
            

    
collected by the Motor Vehicle Division or any agencies designated to act for the Motor Vehicle
            

    
Division under this chapter shall be deposited as restricted revenue in the Off-highway Vehicle
            

    
Account in the General Fund less the costs of collecting off-highway vehicle registration fees by the
            

    
Motor Vehicle Division.  The balance of the monies may be used by the division as follows:
            

    
    (a)  for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of [state-owned] publicly
            

    
owned or administered off-highway vehicle facilities;
            

    
    (b)  as grants or as matching funds with any federal agency [or], political subdivision of the
            

    
state, or organized user group for the construction, improvement, operation, acquisition, or
            

    
maintenance of [federal, municipal, or county-owned] publicly owned or administered off-highway
            

    
vehicle facilities including public access facilities;
            

    
    (c)  for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; and
            

    
    (d)  for the education of off-highway vehicle users.
            

    
    (2)  All agencies or political subdivisions requesting matching funds shall submit plans for
            

    
proposed off-highway vehicle facilities to the division for review and approval.

- 4 -

            

    


- 5 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







