Sponsors: []Modifications: Anshalland become operative 30 days after theservice thereof unless otherwise provided in the ordermay, Administrative Procedures ActFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0120.ZIP 7,262 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 120 Enrolled





            

    
REAL ESTATE LAW AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  L. Alma Mansell

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO REAL ESTATE; CHANGING THE DATE ON WHICH AN ORDER
            

    
OF THE DIVISION OF REAL ESTATE BECOMES EFFECTIVE; AND MAKING
            

    
TECHNICAL CHANGES.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     61-2-12, as last amended by Chapter 146, Laws of Utah 1993
            

    
     61-2-21, as last amended by Chapter 225, Laws of Utah 1989
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
61-2-12

 is amended to read:
            

    
     61-2-12.  Disciplinary action -- Judicial review.  
            

    
    (1) (a)  Before imposing an educational requirement, a civil penalty, revoking, suspending,
            

    
placing on probation, or denying the renewal, reinstatement, or reissuance of any license or
            

    
certificate based on violation of Section 

61-2-11

, the division shall give notice to the licensee or
            

    
certificate holder and schedule an adjudicative proceeding.
            

    
    (b)  If the licensee is an active sales agent or active associate broker, the division shall
            

    
inform the principal broker with whom the licensee is affiliated of the charge and of the time and
            

    
place of the hearing.
            

    
    (c)  If after the hearing the commission determines that any licensee or certificate holder
            

    
is guilty of a violation of this chapter, the license or certificate may be suspended, revoked, denied
            

    
reissuance, or a civil penalty may be imposed by written order of the commission in concurrence
            

    
with the director.
            

    
    (2) (a)  Any applicant, certificate holder, licensee, or person aggrieved, including the
            

    
complainant, may obtain judicial review or agency review by the executive director of any adverse
            

    
ruling, order, or decision of the director and the commission.
            

    
    (b)  If the applicant, certificate holder, or licensee prevails in the appeal and the court finds

            

    
that the state action was undertaken without substantial justification, the court may award reasonable
            

    
litigation expenses to the applicant, certificate holder, or licensee as provided under Title 78, Chapter
            

    
27a, Small Business Equal Access to Justice Act.
            

    
    (c) (i)  [No] An order, rule, or decision of the  director and the commission [may] shall take
            

    
effect [until the time for appeal to the court has expired] and become operative 30 days after the
            

    
service thereof unless otherwise provided in the order.
            

    
    (ii)  If an appeal is taken by a licensee, the division [shall] may stay enforcement of the
            

    
commission's action in accordance with the provisions of Section 

63-46b-18

.
            

    
    (iii)  The appeal shall be governed by the Utah Rules of Appellate Procedure.
            

    
    (3)  The commission and the director shall comply with the procedures and requirements of
            

    
Title 63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act, in their adjudicative proceedings.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
61-2-21

 is amended to read:
            

    
     61-2-21.  Remedies and action for violations.
            

    
    (1) (a)  If the director has reason to believe that any person has been or is engaging in acts
            

    
constituting violations of this chapter, and if it appears to the director that it would be in the public
            

    
interest to stop such acts, he shall issue and serve upon the person an order directing that person to
            

    
cease and desist from those acts.
            

    
    (b)  Within ten days after receiving the order, the person upon whom the order is served may
            

    
request an adjudicative proceeding.
            

    
    (c)  Pending the hearing, the cease and desist order shall remain in effect.
            

    
    (d)  If a request for a hearing is made, the division shall follow the procedures and
            

    
requirements of Title 63, Chapter 46b, Administrative Procedures Act.
            

    
    (2) (a)  After the hearing, if the commission and the [executive] director agree that the acts
            

    
of the person violate this chapter, the [executive] director shall issue an order making the cease and
            

    
desist order permanent.
            

    
    (b)  If no hearing is requested and if the person fails to cease the acts, or after discontinuing
            

    
the acts, again commences the acts, the [executive] director shall file suit in the name of the
            

    
Department of Commerce and the Division of Real Estate, in the district court in the county in which

- 2 -

            

    
the acts occurred or where the person resides or carries on business, to enjoin and restrain the person
            

    
from violating this chapter.
            

    
    (c)  The district courts of this state shall have jurisdiction of these suits.
            

    
    (3)  The remedies and action provided in this section may not interfere with, or prevent the
            

    
prosecution of, any other remedies or actions including criminal proceedings.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







