Sponsors: []Modifications: Sectionthat operates:(a)  as a carrier;(b)  as a carrier to transport the vehicle owner's goods or property in furtherance of theowner's commercial enterprisevehicleany commercial vehiclestate, province, territory, or possession of the United States or foreign countryas defined bySection 41-1a-202,does notor 41-1a-20741-1a-226commercialnotapportioned under Section 41-1a-301 andthe first day of March, June, September, or DecemberMarch, June, September, or December(1)intrastate fleet ofvehicles whichis based in the state.(b)(2)(3)41-1a-207 or(4)used as a commercialvehicleassessing authorityand the property tax or in lieu fee has beencleared under Section 41-1a-206 or 41-1a-207theand any property tax or in lieu fee dueor in lieu feeor 41-1a-207whichever is less,(7)  "County-assessed commercial vehicle" means:(a)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which is not apportioned under Section41-1a-301 and is not operated interstate to transport the vehicle owner's goods or property infurtherance of the owner's commercial enterprise;(b)  any passenger vehicle owned by a business and used by its employees for transportationas a company car or vanpool vehicle; and(c)  vehicles which are:(i)  especially constructed for towing or wrecking, and which are not otherwise used totransport goods, merchandise, or people for compensation;(ii)  used or licensed as taxicabs or limousines;(iii)  used as rental passenger cars, travel trailers, or motor homes;(iv)  used or licensed in this state for use as ambulances or hearses;(v)  especially designed and used for garbage and rubbish collection; or(vi)  used exclusively to transport students or their instructors to or from any private, public,or religious school or school activities.(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17)(18)(19)(20)(20)(21)(22)(23)(24) (a)  "State-assessed commercial vehicle" means:(i)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which operates interstate or intrastate totransport passengers, freight, merchandise, or other property for hire; or(ii)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which operates interstate and transportsthe vehicle owner's goods or property in furtherance of the owner's commercial enterprise.(b)  "State-assessed commercial vehicle" does not include vehicles used for hire which arespecified in Subsection (7)(c) as county-assessed commercial vehicles.(25)(26)(27)except as provided in Subsection (2),(2)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax on state-assessed commercialvehicles at the time of original registration or annual renewal.(a)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax annually on state-assessedcommercial vehicles which are registered pursuant to Section 41-1a-222 or 41-1a-228.(b)  State-assessed commercial vehicles brought into the state which are required to beregistered in Utah shall, as a condition of registration, be subject to ad valorem tax unless allproperty taxes or fees imposed by the state of origin have been paid for the current calendar year.(c)  Real property, improvements, equipment, fixtures, or other personal property in this stateowned by the company shall be assessed separately by the local county assessor.(d)  The commission shall adjust the value of state-assessed commercial vehicles as necessaryto comply with Title 49, Section 11503a of the United States Code, and the commission shall directthe county assessor to apply the same adjustment to any personal property, real property, orimprovements owned by the company and used directly and exclusively in their commercial vehicleactivities.(3)rail car(2)  At least quarterly, the commission shall prepare a record of assessment of state-assessedcommercial vehicles.(3)county,railstate-assessed commercial vehicles; and(e)  state-assessed commercial vehiclesstate-assessed commercial vehiclescommissionin lieuof the ad valorem taxstate-assessed commercial vehicles(1)of each year(a)(b)(2)(c)(d)(2)  State-assessed commercial vehicles shall be taxed at a statewide average rate which iscalculated from the overall county average tax rates from the preceding year, exclusive of theproperty subject to the statewide uniform fee, weighted by lane miles of principal routes in eachcounty.  The commission shall adopt rules to define "principal routes."(3)  The combined revenue from all state-assessed commercial vehicles shall be apportionedto the counties based on:(a)  40% by the percentage of lane miles of principal routes within each county as determinedby the commission; and(b)  60% by the percentage of total state-assessed vehicles having business situs in eachcounty.(4)  At least quarterly, the commission shall apportion the total taxes paid on state-assessedcommercial vehicles to the counties.(5)  Each county shall apportion its share of the revenues to the taxing entities within itsboundaries in the same proportion as other real and personal and other state-assessed propertyvalues.railstate-assessed commercial vehiclesshall(a)  The commission shall remit taxes collected from owners of state-assessed commercialvehicles to each county treasurer at least quarterly.(b)all otherrailrailstate-assessed commercial vehiclesrailstate-assessed commercial vehiclesrailstate-assessed commercial vehicles(a)railstate-assessed commercial vehiclesThis act has retrospective operation to January 1, 1997.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0117.ZIP 39,247 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 117 Enrolled








 
    COMMERCIAL VEHICLE REGISTRATION




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: David H.  Steele


    AN ACT RELATING TO REVENUE AND TAXATION; DEFINING COMMERCIAL

    VEHICLES; PROVIDING FOR THE COLLECTION AND ASSESSMENT OF

    CERTAIN TAXES; AMENDING APPORTIONMENT PROVISIONS ON PROPERTY

    TAXES OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES; MAKING TECHNICAL

    CHANGES; AND PROVIDING FOR RETROSPECTIVE OPERATION.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         17-41-101, as last amended by Chapter 271, Laws of Utah 1995

         41-1a-102, as last amended by Chapter 38, Laws of Utah 1995

         41-1a-202, as last amended by Chapter 9, Laws of Utah 1995, First Special Session

         41-1a-203, as last amended by Chapter 170, Laws of Utah 1996

         41-1a-215, as renumbered and amended by Chapter 1 and last amended by Chapter 218,

    Laws of Utah 1992

         41-1a-222, as last amended by Chapter 9, Laws of Utah 1995, First Special Session

         41-1a-228, as enacted by Chapter 1, Laws of Utah 1992

         41-1a-301, as last amended by Chapter 9, Laws of Utah 1995, First Special Session

         59-2-102, as last amended by Chapter 170, Laws of Utah 1996

         59-2-201, as last amended by Chapter 138, Laws of Utah 1995

         59-2-203, as enacted by Chapter 4, Laws of Utah 1987

         59-2-302, as enacted by Chapter 4, Laws of Utah 1987

         59-2-327, as last amended by Chapter 3, Laws of Utah 1988

         59-2-402, as last amended by Chapters 20 and 339, Laws of Utah 1995

         59-2-403, as enacted by Chapter 4, Laws of Utah 1987

         59-2-405, as last amended by Chapters 247 and 339, Laws of Utah 1995

         59-2-801, as last amended by Chapter 3, Laws of Utah 1988


         59-2-1307, as repealed and reenacted by Chapter 3, Laws of Utah 1988

         59-2-1308, as last amended by Chapter 22, Laws of Utah 1989

         59-2-1309, as repealed and reenacted by Chapter 3, Laws of Utah 1988

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  17-41-101 is amended to read:

         17-41-101.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Agriculture protection area" means a geographic area created under the authority of this

    chapter that is granted the specific legal protections contained in this chapter.

        (2)  "Advisory board" means the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board created by this

    chapter.

        (3) (a)  "Agriculture production" means production for commercial purposes of crops,

    livestock, and livestock products.

        (b)  "Agriculture production" includes the processing or retail marketing of any crops,

    livestock, and livestock products when more than 50% of the processed or merchandised products

    are produced by the farm operator.

        (4)  "Crops, livestock, and livestock products" includes:

        (a)  land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of

    profit, including:

        (i)  forages and sod crops;

        (ii)  grains and feed crops;

        (iii)  livestock as defined in [Subsection] Section 59-2-102[(18)(d)];

        (iv)  trees and fruits; or

        (v)  vegetables, nursery, floral, and ornamental stock; or

        (b)  land devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for payments or other

    compensation under a crop-land retirement program with an agency of the state or federal

    government.

        (5)  "Political subdivision" means a county, school district, or special district.

- 2 -


        (6)  "Proposal sponsors" means the owners of land in agricultural production who are

    sponsoring the proposal for creating an agricultural protection area.

        (7)  "State agency" means each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution,

    officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory, library, unit, bureau,

    panel, or other administrative unit of the state. 

        Section 2.  Section  41-1a-102 is amended to read:

         41-1a-102.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Actual miles" means the actual distance a vehicle has traveled while in operation.

        (2)  "Actual weight" means the actual unladen weight of a vehicle or combination of vehicles

    as operated and certified to by a weighmaster.

        (3)  "Affidavit of Mobile Home Affixture" means the affidavit of affixture described in Title

    59, Chapter 2, Part 6, Mobile Homes.

        (4)  "All-terrain type I vehicle" has the same meaning provided in Section 41-22-2.

        (5)  "All-terrain type II vehicle" has the same meaning provided in Section 41-22-2.

        (6)  "Amateur radio operator" means any person licensed by the Federal Communications

    Commission to engage in private and experimental two-way radio operation on the amateur band

    radio frequencies.

        (7)  "Branded title" means a title certificate that is labeled:

        (a)  rebuilt and restored to operation;

        (b)  flooded and restored to operation; or

        (c)  not restored to operation.

        (8)  "Camper" means any structure designed, used, and maintained primarily to be mounted

    on or affixed to a motor vehicle that contains a floor and is designed to provide a mobile dwelling,

    sleeping place, commercial space, or facilities for human habitation or for camping.

        (9)  "Certificate of title" means a document issued by a jurisdiction to establish a record of

    ownership between an identified owner and the described vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.

        (10)  "Certified scale weigh ticket" means a weigh ticket that has been issued by a

- 3 -


    weighmaster.

        (11)  "Commercial vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer used or maintained

    for the transportation of persons or property that operates:

        (a)  as a carrier for hire, compensation, or profit; or [designed, used, or maintained primarily

    for the transportation of property]

        (b)  as a carrier to transport the vehicle owner's goods or property in furtherance of the

    owner's commercial enterprise.

        (12)  "Commission" means the State Tax Commission.

        (13)  "Dealer" means a person engaged or licensed to engage in the business of buying,

    selling, or exchanging new or used vehicles, vessels, or outboard motors either outright or on

    conditional sale, bailment, lease, chattel mortgage, or otherwise or who has an established place of

    business for the sale, lease, trade, or display of vehicles, vessels, or outboard motors.

        (14)  "Division" means the Motor Vehicle Division of the commission, created in Section

    41-1a-106.

        (15)  "Essential parts" means all integral and body parts of a vehicle of a type required to be

    registered in this state, the removal, alteration, or substitution of which would tend to conceal the

    identity of the vehicle or substantially alter its appearance, model, type, or mode of operation.

        (16)  "Farm tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm

    implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry.

        (17) (a)  "Farm truck" means a truck used by the owner or operator of a farm solely for his

    own use in the transportation of:

        (i)  farm products, including livestock and its products, poultry and its products, floricultural

    and horticultural products;

        (ii)  farm supplies, including tile, fence, and every other thing or commodity used in

    agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production; and

        (iii)  livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding, or other

    purposes connected with the operation of a farm.

        (b)  "Farm truck" does not include the operation of trucks by commercial processors of

- 4 -


    agricultural products.

        (18) [(a)]  "Fleet" means one or more commercial vehicles [that supply motive power and

    contain a compartment for the driver].

        [(b)  "Fleet" also means not less than ten commercial vehicles that are trailers or semitrailers.]

        (19)  "Foreign vehicle" means a vehicle of a type required to be registered, brought into this

    state from another state, territory, or country other than in the ordinary course of business by or

    through a manufacturer or dealer, and not registered in this state.

        (20)  "Gross laden weight" means the actual weight of a vehicle or combination of vehicles,

    equipped for operation, to which shall be added the maximum load to be carried.

        (21)  "Highway" or "street" means the entire width between property lines of every way or

    place of whatever nature when any part of it is open to the public, as a matter of right, for purposes

    of vehicular traffic.

        (22) (a)  "Identification number" means the identifying number assigned by the manufacturer

    or by the division for the purpose of identifying the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.

        (b)  "Identification number" includes a vehicle identification number, state assigned

    identification number, hull identification number, and motor serial number.

        (23)  "Implement of husbandry" means every vehicle designed or adapted and used

    exclusively for an agricultural operation and only incidentally operated or moved upon the highways.

        (24) (a)  "In-state miles" means the total number of miles operated in this state during the

    preceding year by fleet power units.

        (b)  If fleets are composed entirely of trailers or semitrailers, "in-state miles" means the total

    number of miles that those vehicles were towed on Utah highways during the preceding year.

        (25)  "Interstate [commercial vehicles] vehicle" means [vehicles used or maintained for the

    transportation of persons for hire, compensation, or profit or designed, used, or maintained primarily

    for the transportation of property and] any commercial vehicle operated in more than one

    [jurisdiction] state, province, territory, or possession of the United States or foreign country.

        (26)  "Jurisdiction" means a state, district, province, political subdivision, territory, or

    possession of the United States or any foreign country.

- 5 -


        (27)  "Lienholder" means a person with a security interest in particular property.

        (28)  "Manufactured home" means a structure that is built on a permanent chassis,

    transportable in one or more sections, and is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a

    permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.

        (29)  "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of constructing, manufacturing,

    assembling, producing, or importing new or unused vehicles, vessels, or outboard motors for the

    purpose of sale or trade.

        (30)  "Mobile home" means a structure transportable in one or more sections with the

    plumbing, heating, and electrical systems contained intact within the structure.

        (31)  "Motorboat" has the same meaning as provided in Section 73-18-2.

        (32)  "Motorcycle" means a motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and

    designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.

        (33) (a)  "Motor vehicle" means a self-propelled vehicle intended primarily for use and

    operation on the highways.

        (b)  "Motor vehicle" does not include an off-highway vehicle.

        (34) (a)  "Nonresident" means a person who is not a resident of this state as defined by

    Section 41-1a-202, and who does not engage in intrastate business within this state and does not

    operate in that business any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer within this state.

        (b)  A person who engages in intrastate business within this state and operates in that

    business any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer in this state or who, even though engaging in

    interstate commerce, maintains any vehicle in this state as the home station of that vehicle is

    considered a resident of this state, insofar as that vehicle is concerned in administering this chapter.

        (35)  "Odometer" means a device for measuring and recording the actual distance a vehicle

    travels while in operation, but does not include any auxiliary odometer designed to be periodically

    reset.

        (36)  "Off-highway implement of husbandry" has the same meaning as provided in Section

    41-22-2.

        (37)  "Off-highway vehicle" has the same meaning as provided in Section 41-22-2.

- 6 -


        (38)  "Operate" means to drive or be in actual physical control of a vehicle or to navigate a

    vessel.

        (39)  "Outboard motor" means a detachable self-contained propulsion unit, excluding fuel

    supply, used to propel a vessel.

        (40) (a)  "Owner" means a person, other than a lienholder, holding title to a vehicle, vessel,

    or outboard motor whether or not the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor is subject to a security

    interest.

        (b)  If a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or installment sale or

    mortgage of the vehicle with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the

    agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or mortgagor,

    or if the vehicle is the subject of a security agreement, then the conditional vendee, mortgagor, or

    debtor is considered the owner for the purposes of this chapter.

        (c)  If a vehicle is the subject of an agreement to lease, the lessor is considered the owner

    until the lessee exercises his option to purchase the vehicle.

        (41)  "Personalized license plate" means a license plate that has displayed on it a combination

    of letters, numbers, or both as requested by the owner of the vehicle and assigned to the vehicle by

    the division.

        (42) (a)  "Pickup truck" means a two-axle motor vehicle with motive power manufactured,

    remanufactured, or materially altered to provide an open cargo area.

        (b)  "Pickup truck" includes motor vehicles with the open cargo area covered with a camper,

    camper shell, tarp, removable top, or similar structure.

        (43)  "Pneumatic tire" means every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the

    load.

        (44)  "Preceding year" means a period of 12 consecutive months fixed by the division that

    is within 16 months immediately preceding the commencement of the registration or license year

    in which proportional registration is sought. The division in fixing the period shall conform it to the

    terms, conditions, and requirements of any applicable agreement or arrangement for the proportional

    registration of vehicles.

- 7 -


        (45)  "Public garage" means every building or other place where vehicles or vessels are kept

    and stored and where a charge is made for the storage and keeping of vehicles and vessels.

        (46)  "Reconstructed vehicle" means every vehicle of a type required to be registered in this

    state that is materially altered from its original construction by the removal, addition, or substitution

    of essential parts, new or used.

        (47)  "Registration" means a document issued by a jurisdiction that allows operation of a

    vehicle or vessel on the highways or waters of this state for the time period for which the registration

    is valid and that is evidence of compliance with the registration requirements of the jurisdiction.

        (48) (a)  "Registration year" means a 12 consecutive month period commencing with the

    completion of all applicable registration criteria.

        (b)  For administration of a multistate agreement for proportional registration the division

    may prescribe a different 12-month period.

        (49)  "Repair or replacement" means the restoration of vehicles, vessels, or outboard motors

    to a sound working condition by substituting any inoperative part of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard

    motor, or by correcting the inoperative part.

        (50)  "Road tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles

    and constructed so it does not carry any load either independently or any part of the weight of a

    vehicle or load that is drawn.

        (51)  "Sailboat" has the same meaning as provided in Section 73-18-2.

        (52)  "Security interest" means an interest that is reserved or created by a security agreement

    to secure the payment or performance of an obligation and that is valid against third parties.

        (53)  "Semitrailer" means every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons

    or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed so that some part of its weight

    and its load rests or is carried by another vehicle.

        (54)  "Special group license plate" means a type of license plate designed for a particular

    group of people or a license plate authorized and issued by the division in accordance with Section

    41-1a-408.

        (55) (a)  "Special interest vehicle" means a vehicle used for general transportation purposes

- 8 -


    and that is:

        (i)  20 years or older from the current year; or

        (ii)  a make or model of motor vehicle recognized by the division director as having unique

    interest or historic value.

        (b)  In making his determination under Subsection (a), the division director shall give special

    consideration to:

        (i)  a make of motor vehicle that is no longer manufactured;

        (ii)  a make or model of motor vehicle produced in limited or token quantities;

        (iii)  a make or model of motor vehicle produced as an experimental vehicle or one designed

    exclusively for educational purposes or museum display; or

        (iv)  a motor vehicle of any age or make that has not been substantially altered or modified

    from original specifications of the manufacturer and because of its significance is being collected,

    preserved, restored, maintained, or operated by a collector or hobbyist as a leisure pursuit.

        (56)  "Special mobile equipment" means every vehicle not designed or used primarily for the

    transportation of persons or property and incidentally operated or moved over the highways,

    including farm tractors, road construction or maintenance machinery, ditch-digging apparatus,

    well-boring apparatus, and concrete mixers.

        (57)  "Specially constructed vehicle" means every vehicle of a type required to be registered

    in this state, not originally constructed under a distinctive name, make, model, or type by a generally

    recognized manufacturer of vehicles, and not materially altered from its original construction.

        (58)  "Title" means the right to or ownership of a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.

        (59) (a)  "Total fleet miles" means the total number of miles operated in all jurisdictions

    during the preceding year by power units.

        (b)  If fleets are composed entirely of trailers or semitrailers, "total fleet miles" means the

    number of miles that those vehicles were towed on the highways of all jurisdictions during the

    preceding year.

        (60)  "Trailer" means a vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or

    property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed so that no part of its weight rests

- 9 -


    upon the towing vehicle.

        (61)  "Transferee" means a person to whom the ownership of property is conveyed by sale,

    gift, or any other means except by the creation of a security interest.

        (62)  "Transferor" means a person who transfers his ownership in property by sale, gift, or

    any other means except by creation of a security interest.

        (63)  "Travel trailer" means a trailer designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational,

    and vacation use that does not require special highway movement permits when drawn by a motor

    vehicle.

        (64)  "Truck tractor" means a motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other

    vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load

    that is drawn.

        (65)  "Vehicle" includes a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off-highway vehicle,

    manufactured home, and mobile home.

        (66)  "Vessel" has the same meaning as provided in Section 73-18-2.

        (67)  "Vintage vehicle" has the same meaning as provided in Section 41-21-1.

        (68)  "Waters of this state" has the same meaning as provided in Section 73-18-2.

        (69)  "Weighmaster" means a person, association of persons, or corporation permitted to

    weigh vehicles under this chapter.

        Section 3.  Section  41-1a-202 is amended to read:

         41-1a-202.  Definitions -- Vehicles exempt from registration -- Registration of vehicles

     after establishing residency.

        (1)  In this section:

        (a)  "Domicile" means the place:

        (i)  where an individual has a fixed permanent home and principal establishment;

        (ii)  to which the individual if absent, intends to return; and

        (iii)  in which the individual and his family voluntarily reside, not for a special or temporary

    purpose, but with the intention of making a permanent home.

        (b) (i)  "Resident" means any of the following:

- 10 -


        (A)  an individual who:

        (I)  has established a domicile in this state;

        (II)  regardless of domicile, remains in this state for an aggregate period of six months or

    more during any calendar year;

        (III)  engages in a trade, profession, or occupation in this state or who accepts employment

    in other than seasonal work in this state and who does not commute into the state;

        (IV)  declares himself to be a resident of this state for the purpose of obtaining a driver

    license or motor vehicle registration; or

        (V)  declares himself a resident of Utah to obtain privileges not ordinarily extended to

    nonresidents, including going to school, or placing children in school without paying nonresident

    tuition or fees;

        (B)  any individual, partnership, limited liability company, firm, corporation, association, or

    other entity that:

        (I)  maintains a main office, branch office, or warehouse facility in this state and that bases

    and operates a motor vehicle in this state; or

        (II)  operates a motor vehicle in intrastate transportation for other than seasonal work.

        (ii)  "Resident" does not include any of the following:

        (A)  a member of the military temporarily stationed in Utah;

        (B)  an out-of-state student, as classified by the institution of higher education, enrolled with

    the equivalent of seven or more quarter hours, regardless of whether the student engages in a trade,

    profession, or occupation in this state or accepts employment in this state.

        (2)  Registration under this chapter is not required for any:

        (a)  vehicle registered in another state and owned by a nonresident of the state or operating

    under a temporary registration permit issued by the division or a dealer authorized by this chapter,

    driven or moved upon a highway in conformance with the provisions of this chapter relating to

    manufacturers, transporters, dealers, lien holders, or interstate [commercial] vehicles;

        (b)  vehicle driven or moved upon a highway only for the purpose of crossing the highway

    from one property to another;

- 11 -


        (c)  implement of husbandry, whether of a type otherwise subject to registration or not, that

    is only incidentally operated or moved upon a highway;

        (d)  special mobile equipment;

        (e)  vehicle owned or leased by the federal government;

        (f)  motor vehicle not designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of passengers for

    hire or for the transportation of property if the motor vehicle is registered in another state and is

    owned and operated by a nonresident of this state;

        (g)  vehicle or combination of vehicles designed, used, or maintained for the transportation

    of persons for hire or for the transportation of property if the vehicle or combination of vehicles is

    registered in another state and is owned and operated by a nonresident of this state and if the vehicle

    or combination of vehicles has a gross laden weight of 26,000 pounds or less;

        (h)  trailer of 750 pounds or less unladen weight and not designed, used, and maintained for

    hire for the transportation of property or person;

        (i)  manufactured home or mobile home;

        (j)  off-highway vehicle currently registered under Section 41-22-3 if the off-highway vehicle

    is:

        (i)  being towed;

        (ii)  operated on a street or highway designated as open to off-highway vehicle use; or

        (iii)  operated in the manner prescribed in Section 41-22-10.3;

        (k)  off-highway implement of husbandry operated in the manner prescribed in Subsections

    41-22-5.5(3) through (5); or

        (l)  modular and prebuilt homes conforming to the uniform building code and presently

    regulated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development that are not

    constructed on a permanent chassis.

        (3)  Unless otherwise exempted under Subsection (2), registration under this chapter is

    required for any motor vehicle, combination of vehicles, trailer, semitrailer, or vintage vehicle within

    60 days of the owner establishing residency in this state. 

        Section 4.  Section  41-1a-203 is amended to read:

- 12 -


         41-1a-203.  Prerequisites for registration.

        (1)  Except as otherwise provided, prior to registration a vehicle must have:

        (a)  an identification number inspection under Section 41-1a-204;

        (b)  passed the safety inspection as provided under Sections 41-1a-205 and 53-8-205;

        (c)  passed the emissions inspection as provided under Section 41-6-163.6;

        (d)  paid property taxes, the in lieu fee, or received a property tax clearance under Section

    41-1a-206 or 41-1a-207;

        (e)  paid the automobile driver education tax required by Section 41-1a-208;

        (f)  paid the applicable registration fee under Part 12, Fee and Tax Requirements; [and]

        (g)  paid the uninsured motorist identification fee under Section 41-1a-1218, if applicable;

    and

        (h)  paid the motor carrier fee under Section 41-1a-1219, if applicable.

        (2)  In addition to the requirements in Subsection (1), an owner whose vehicle has not been

    previously registered or that is currently registered under a previous owner's name must also apply

    for a valid certificate of title in the owner's name prior to registration.

        (3)  A new registration, transfer of ownership, or registration renewal under Section 73-18-7

    may not be issued for a vessel or outboard motor that is subject to the title provisions of this chapter

    unless a certificate of title has been or is in the process of being issued in the same owner's name.

        (4)  A new registration, transfer of ownership, or registration renewal under Section 41-22-3

    may not be issued for an off-highway vehicle that is subject to the titling provisions of this chapter

    unless a certificate of title has been or is in the process of being issued in the same owner's name.

        Section 5.  Section  41-1a-215 is amended to read:

         41-1a-215.  Staggered registration dates - Exceptions.

        (1) (a)  Except under Subsections (2) and (3), every vehicle registration, every registration

    card, and every registration plate issued under this chapter for the first registration of the vehicle in

    this state, continues in effect for a period of 12 months beginning with the first day of the calendar

    month of registration and does not expire until the last day of the same month in the following year. 

        (b)  If the last day of the registration period falls on a day in which the appropriate state or

- 13 -


    county offices are not open for business, the registration of the vehicle is extended to midnight of

    the next business day. 

        (2)  The provisions of Subsection (1) do not apply to the following: 

        (a)  registration issued to government vehicles under Section 41-1a-221; 

        (b)  registration issued to apportioned vehicles under Section 41-1a-301; 

        (c)  multiyear registration issued under Section 41-1a-222; 

        (d)  lifetime trailer registration issued under Section 41-1a-1206; 

        (e)  partial year registration issued under Section 41-1a-1207; 

        (f)  vintage vehicle registration issued under Section [41-21-2] 41-1a-226; or 

        (g)  plates issued to a dealer, dismantler, manufacturer, remanufacturer, and transporter under

    Title 41, Chapter 3, Part 5, Special Dealer License Plates. 

        (3) [(a)]  Upon application of the owner or lessee of a fleet of commercial vehicles not

    apportioned under Section 41-1a-301 and required to be registered in this state, the State Tax

    Commission may permit the vehicles to be registered for a registration period commencing on

    [January 1] the first day of March, June, September, or December of any year and expiring on the

    last day of [January] March, June, September, or December in the following year. 

        [(b)  "Fleet," for purposes of this subsection, means more than ten vehicles registered to the

    same owner or lessee.]

        (4)  When the expiration of a registration plate is extended by affixing a validation decal to

    it, the expiration of the decal governs the expiration date of the plate. 

        Section 6.  Section  41-1a-222 is amended to read:

         41-1a-222.  Application for multiyear registration -- Payment of taxes -- Penalties.

        [(1)  As used in this section:]

        [(a)  "Commercial vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer used or maintained

    for the transportation of persons or property for hire, compensation, or profit or designed, used, or

    maintained primarily for the transportation of property and not subject to registration under Section

    41-1a-301.]

        [(b)  "Fleet" means two or more commercial vehicles registered under this chapter.]

- 14 -


        [(2)] (1)  The owner of any intrastate fleet of commercial [vehicle or fleet] vehicles which

    is based in the state may apply to the commission for registration in accordance with this section

    [under the following conditions:].

        (a) [(i)]  The application shall be made on a form prescribed by the commission.

        [(ii)] (b)  Upon payment of required fees and meeting other requirements prescribed by the

    commission, the division shall issue, to each vehicle for which application has been made, a

    multiyear license plate and registration card.

        [(b)] (i)  The license plate decal and the registration card shall bear an expiration date fixed

    by the division and are valid until ownership of the vehicle to which they are issued is transferred

    by the applicant or until the expiration date, whichever comes first.

        (ii)  An annual renewal application must be made by the owner if registration identification

    has been issued on an annual installment fee basis and the required fees must be paid on an annual

    basis.

        (iii)  License plates and registration cards issued pursuant to this section are valid for an

    eight-year period, commencing with the year of initial application in this state.

        (c)  When application for registration or renewal is made on an installment payment basis,

    the applicant shall submit acceptable evidence of a surety bond in a form, and with a surety,

    approved by the commission and in an amount equal to the total annual fees required for all vehicles

    registered to the applicant in accordance with this section.

        [(3)] (2)  Each vehicle registered as part of a fleet of commercial vehicles must be titled in

    the name of the fleet.

        [(4)] (3)  Each owner who registers [vehicles or] fleets pursuant to this section shall pay the

    taxes or in lieu fees otherwise due pursuant to Section 41-1a-206 or 41-1a-207 or Subsection

    41-1a-301(11).

        [(5)] (4)  An owner who fails to comply with the provisions of this section is subject to the

    penalties in Section 41-1a-1301 and, if the commission so determines, will result in the loss of the

    privileges granted in this section.

        Section 7.  Section  41-1a-228 is amended to read:

- 15 -


         41-1a-228.  Special lifetime trailer registration -- Property tax or in lieu fees.

        (1)  The owner of a [commercial] trailer or [commercial] semitrailer used as a commercial

    vehicle may obtain an alternative special registration and license plate valid for the life of the trailer

    while the trailer is possessed by the registrant.

        (2)  The owner must file, on or before January 31 of each year after the year of issuance of

    the special registration and license plate, a certificate from the [county assessor of the county in

    which the vehicle has situs for taxation] assessing authority to the effect that any property tax or in

    lieu fee due for the current year has been paid.

        (3)  If property tax or the in lieu fee is not paid, registration is suspended or revoked. 

        Section 8.  Section  41-1a-301 is amended to read:

         41-1a-301.  Apportioned registration and licensing of interstate vehicles.

        (1) (a)  An owner or operator of a fleet of commercial vehicles based in this state and

    operating in two or more jurisdictions may register commercial vehicles for operation under the

    International Registration Plan or the Uniform Vehicle Registration Proration and Reciprocity

    Agreement by filing an application with the division.

        (b)   The application shall include information that identifies the vehicle owner, the vehicle,

    the miles traveled in each jurisdiction, and other information pertinent to the registration of

    apportioned vehicles.

        (c)  Vehicles operated exclusively in this state may not be apportioned.

        (2) (a)   If no operations were conducted during the preceding year, the application shall

    contain a statement of the proposed operations and an estimate of annual mileage for each

    jurisdiction.

        (b)  The division may adjust the estimate if the division is not satisfied with its correctness.

        (c)  At renewal, the registrant shall use the actual mileage from the preceding year in

    computing fees due each jurisdiction.

        (3)  The registration fee for apportioned vehicles shall be determined as follows:

        (a)  divide the in-jurisdiction miles by the total miles generated during the preceding year;

        (b)  total  the fees for each vehicle based on the fees prescribed in Section 41-1a-1206; and

- 16 -


        (c)  multiply the sum obtained under Subsection (3)(b) by the quotient obtained under

    Subsection (3)(a).

        (4)  Trailers or semitrailers of apportioned fleets may be listed separately as "trailer fleets"

    with the fees paid according to the total distance those trailers were towed in all jurisdictions during

    the preceding year mileage reporting period.

        (5) (a) (i)  When the proper fees have been paid and the property tax or in lieu fee has been

    cleared under Section 41-1a-206 or 41-1a-207, a registration card, annual decal, and where

    necessary, license plate, will be issued for each unit listed on the application.

        (ii)  An original registration must be carried in each vehicle at all times.

        (b)  Original registration cards for trailers or semitrailers may be carried in the power unit.

        (c) (i)  In lieu of a permanent registration card or license plate, the division may issue one

    temporary permit authorizing operation of new or unlicensed vehicles until the permanent

    registration is completed.

        (ii)   Once a temporary permit is issued, the registration process may not be cancelled. 

    Registration must be completed and the fees and any property tax or in lieu fee due must be paid for

    the vehicle for which the permit was issued.

        (iii)  Temporary permits may not be issued for renewals.

        (d) (i)  The division shall issue one distinctive license  plate that displays the letters APP for

    apportioned vehicles.

        (ii)  The plate must be displayed on the front of the power unit or on the rear of the trailer,

    as appropriate.

        (iii)  Distinctive decals displaying the word "apportioned" and the month and year of

    expiration shall be issued for each apportioned vehicle.

        (e)  A nonrefundable administrative fee, determined by the Tax Commission pursuant to

    Section 63-38-3.2, shall be charged for each temporary permit, registration, or both.

        (6)   Vehicles that are apportionally registered are fully registered for  intrastate and interstate 

    movements, providing the proper interstate and intrastate authority has been secured.

        (7) (a)  Vehicles added to an apportioned fleet after the beginning of the registration year

- 17 -


    shall be registered by applying the quotient under Subsection (3)(a) for the original application to

    the fees  due for the remainder of the registration year.

        (b) (i)  The owner shall maintain and submit complete annual mileage for each vehicle in

    each jurisdiction, showing all miles operated by the lessor and lessee.

        (ii)  The fiscal mileage reporting period begins July 1, and continues through June 30 of the

    year immediately preceding the calendar year in which the registration year begins.

        (c) (i)  An owner-operator, who is a lessor, may be the registrant and the vehicle may be

    registered in the name of the owner-operator.

        (ii)  The identification plates and registration card shall be the property of the lessor and may

    reflect both the owner-operator's name and that of the carrier as lessee.

        (iii)  The allocation of fees shall be according to the operational records of the

    owner-operator.

        (d) (i)  The lessee may be the registrant of a leased vehicle at the option of the lessor.

        (ii)  If a lessee is the registrant of a leased vehicle, both the lessor's and lessee's name shall

    appear on the registration.

        (iii)  The allocation of fees shall be according to the records of the carrier.

         (8) (a)  Any registrant whose application for apportioned registration has been accepted shall

    preserve the records on which the application is based for a period of three years after the close of

    the registration year.

        (b)  The records shall be made available to the division upon request for audit as to  accuracy

    of computations, payments, and assessments for deficiencies, or allowances for credits.

        (c)  An assessment for deficiency or claim for credit may not be made for any period for

    which records are no longer required.

        (d)  Interest in the amount prescribed by Section 59-1-402 shall be assessed or paid from the

    date due until paid on deficiencies found due after audit.

        (e)  Registrants with deficiencies are subject to the penalties under Section 59-1-401.

        (f)  The division may enter into agreements with other International Registration Plan

    jurisdictions for joint audits.

- 18 -


        (9)  All state fees collected shall be deposited in the Transportation Fund.

        (10)  If registration is for less than a full year, fees for apportioned registration shall be

    assessed according to Section 41-1a-1207.

        (a) (i)  If the registrant is replacing a vehicle for one withdrawn from the fleet and the new

    vehicle is of the same weight category as the replaced vehicle, the registrant must file a supplemental

    application.

        (ii)  A registration card that transfers the license plate to the new vehicle shall be issued.

        (iii)  When a replacement vehicle is of greater weight than the replaced vehicle, additional

    registration fees are due.

        (b)  If a vehicle is withdrawn from an apportioned fleet during the period for which it is

    registered, the registrant shall notify the division and surrender the  registration card and license plate

    of the withdrawn vehicle.

        (11) (a)  An out-of-state carrier with an apportionally registered vehicle who has not

    presented a certificate of property tax or in lieu fee as required by Section 41-1a-206 or 41-1a-207, 

    shall pay, at the time of registration, a proportional part of an equalized highway use tax computed

    as follows:

        (i)  Multiply the number of vehicles or combination vehicles registered in each weight class

    by the equivalent tax figure from the following table:

                Vehicle or Combination    Equivalent

                    Registered Weight     Tax

                6,000 - 18,000 pounds    $100

                18,001 - 34,000 pounds      200

                34,001 - 48,000 pounds      300

                48,001 - 64,000 pounds      450

                64,001 pounds and over       600

        (ii)  Multiply the equivalent tax value for the total fleet determined under Subsection (i) by

    the fraction computed under Subsection (3) for the apportioned fleet for the registration year.

        (b)  Fees shall be assessed as provided in Section 41-1a-1207.

- 19 -


        (12) (a)  Commercial vehicles meeting the registration requirements of another jurisdiction

    may, as an alternative to full or apportioned registration, secure a temporary registration permit for

    a period not to exceed 96 hours or until they leave the state, whichever is less, for a fee of $20 for

    a single unit and $40 for multiple units.

        (b)  A state temporary permit or registration fee is not required from nonresident owners or

    operators of vehicles or combination of vehicles having a gross laden weight of 26,000 pounds or

    less for each single unit or combination.

        Section 9.  Section  59-2-102 is amended to read:

         59-2-102.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter and title:

        (1)  "Aerial applicator" means aircraft or rotorcraft used exclusively for the purpose of

    engaging in dispensing activities directly affecting agriculture or horticulture with an airworthiness

    certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration certifying the aircraft or rotorcraft's use for

    agricultural and pest control purposes.

        (2)  "Air charter service" means an air carrier operation which requires the customer to hire

    an entire aircraft rather than book passage in whatever capacity is available on a scheduled trip.

        (3)  "Air contract service" means an air carrier operation available only to customers who

    engage the services of the carrier through a contractual agreement and excess capacity on any trip

    and is not available to the public at large.

        (4)  "Airline" means any air carrier operating interstate routes on a scheduled basis which

    offers to fly passengers or cargo on the basis of available capacity on regularly scheduled routes.

        (5)  "Assessment roll" means a permanent record of the assessment of property as assessed

    by the county assessor and the commission and may be maintained manually or as a computerized

    file as a consolidated record or as multiple records by type, classification, or categories.

        (6)  "Certified revenue levy" means a property tax levy that provides the same amount of ad

    valorem property tax revenue as was collected for the prior year, plus new growth, but exclusive of

    revenue from collections from redemptions, interest, and penalties.

        (7)  "County-assessed commercial vehicle" means:

- 20 -


        (a)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which is not apportioned under Section

    41-1a-301 and is not operated interstate to transport the vehicle owner's goods or property in

    furtherance of the owner's commercial enterprise;

        (b)  any passenger vehicle owned by a business and used by its employees for transportation

    as a company car or vanpool vehicle; and

        (c)  vehicles which are:

        (i)  especially constructed for towing or wrecking, and which are not otherwise used to

    transport goods, merchandise, or people for compensation;

        (ii)  used or licensed as taxicabs or limousines;

        (iii)  used as rental passenger cars, travel trailers, or motor homes;

        (iv)  used or licensed in this state for use as ambulances or hearses;

        (v)  especially designed and used for garbage and rubbish collection; or

        (vi)  used exclusively to transport students or their instructors to or from any private, public,

    or religious school or school activities.

        [(7)] (8) (a)  "Escaped property" means any property, whether personal, land, or any

    improvements to the property, subject to taxation and is:

        (i)  inadvertently omitted from the tax rolls, assigned to the incorrect parcel, or assessed to

    the wrong taxpayer by the assessing authority;

        (ii)  undervalued or omitted from the tax rolls because of the failure of the taxpayer to comply

    with the reporting requirements of this chapter; or

        (iii)  undervalued because of errors made by the assessing authority based upon incomplete

    or erroneous information furnished by the taxpayer.

        (b)  Property which is undervalued because of the use of a different valuation methodology

    or because of a different application of the same valuation methodology is not "escaped property."

        [(8)] (9)  "Fair market value" means the amount at which property would change hands

    between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy or sell and

    both having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts, and includes the adjustment for intangible

    values under Sections 59-2-304 and 59-2-201 for real property assessed by the county assessor or

- 21 -


    the commission.  For purposes of taxation, "fair market value" shall be determined using the current

    zoning laws applicable to the property in question, except in cases where there is a reasonable

    probability of a change in the zoning laws affecting that property in the tax year in question and the

    change would have an appreciable influence upon the value.

        [(9)] (10)  "Farm machinery and equipment," for purposes of the exemption provided under

    Section 59-2-1101, means tractors, milking equipment and storage and cooling facilities, feed

    handling equipment, irrigation equipment, harvesters, choppers, grain drills and planters, tillage

    tools, scales, combines, spreaders, sprayers, haying equipment, and any other machinery or

    equipment used primarily for agricultural purposes; but does not include vehicles required to be

    registered with the Motor Vehicle Division or vehicles or other equipment used for business

    purposes other than farming.

        [(10)] (11)  "Geothermal fluid" means water in any form at temperatures greater than 120

    degrees centigrade naturally present in a geothermal system.

        [(11)] (12)  "Geothermal resource" means:

        (a)  the natural heat of the earth at temperatures greater than 120 degrees centigrade; and

        (b)  the energy, in whatever form, including pressure, present in, resulting from, created by,

    or which may be extracted from that natural heat, directly or through a material medium.

        [(12)] (13)  "Improvements" includes all buildings, structures, fixtures, fences, and

    improvements erected upon or affixed to the land, whether the title has been acquired to the land or

    not.  "Improvements" also includes a mobile home as defined in Section 59-2-601, located on land

    owned by the person who owns the mobile home.  For purposes of this subsection "land owned"

    includes a vendee in possession of the land under a land contract.

        [(13)] (14)  "Intangible value" includes various fees, services, closing costs, and brokerage

    commissions related to a real property sales transaction.

        [(14)] (15)  "Metalliferous minerals" includes gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, and uranium.

        [(15)] (16)  "Mine" means a natural deposit of either metalliferous or nonmetalliferous

    valuable mineral.

        [(16)] (17)  "Mining" means the process of producing, extracting, leaching, evaporating, or

- 22 -


    otherwise removing a mineral from a mine.

        [(17)] (18)  "Nonmetalliferous minerals" includes, but is not limited to, oil, gas, coal, salts,

    sand, rock, gravel, and all carboniferous materials.

        [(18)] (19)  "Personal property" includes:

        (a)  every class of property as defined in Subsection [(19)] (20) which is the subject of

    ownership and not included within the meaning of the terms "real estate" and "improvements";

        (b)  gas and water mains and pipes laid in roads, streets, or alleys;

        (c)  bridges and ferries; and

        (d)  livestock which, for the purposes of the exemption provided under Section 59-2-1112,

    means all domestic animals, honeybees, poultry, fur-bearing animals, and fish.

        [(19)] (20)  "Property" means property which is subject to assessment and taxation according

    to its value, but does not include moneys, credits, bonds, stocks, representative property, franchises,

    goodwill, copyrights, patents, or other intangibles.

        [(20)] (21)  "Public utility," for purposes of this chapter, means the operating property of a

    railroad, gas corporation, oil or gas transportation or pipeline company, coal slurry pipeline

    company, electrical corporation, telephone corporation, sewerage corporation, or heat corporation

    where the company performs the service for, or delivers the commodity to, the public generally or

    companies serving the public generally, or in the case of a gas corporation or an electrical

    corporation, where the gas or electricity is sold or furnished to any member or consumers within the

    state for domestic, commercial, or industrial use.  Public utility also means the operating property

    of any entity or person defined under Section 54-2-1 except water corporations.

        [(21)] (22)  "Real estate or property" includes:

        (a)  the possession of, claim to, ownership of, or right to the possession of land;

        (b)  all mines, minerals, and quarries in and under the land, all timber belonging to

    individuals or corporations growing or being on the lands of this state or the United States, and all

    rights and privileges appertaining to these; and

        (c)  improvements.

        [(22)] (23)  "Residential property," for the purposes of the reductions and adjustments under

- 23 -


    this chapter, means any property used for residential purposes as a primary residence.  It does not

    include property used for transient residential use or condominiums used in rental pools.

        (24) (a)  "State-assessed commercial vehicle" means:

        (i)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which operates interstate or intrastate to

    transport passengers, freight, merchandise, or other property for hire; or

        (ii)  any commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer which operates interstate and transports

    the vehicle owner's goods or property in furtherance of the owner's commercial enterprise.

        (b)  "State-assessed commercial vehicle" does not include vehicles used for hire which are

    specified in Subsection (7)(c) as county-assessed commercial vehicles.

        [(23)] (25)  "Taxable value" means fair market value less any applicable reduction allowed

    for residential property under Section 59-2-103.

        [(24)] (26)  "Taxing entity" means any county, city, town, school district, special taxing

    district, or any other political subdivision of the state with the authority to levy a tax on property.

        [(25)] (27)  "Tax roll" means a permanent record of the taxes charged on property, as

    extended on the assessment roll and may be maintained on the same record or records as the

    assessment roll or may be maintained on a separate record properly indexed to the assessment roll. 

    It includes tax books, tax lists, and other similar materials.

        Section 10.  Section  59-2-201 is amended to read:

         59-2-201.  Assessment by commission -- Determination of value of mining property --

     Notification of assessment -- Local assessment of property assessed by the unitary method.

        (1)  By May 1 of each year the following property, unless otherwise exempt under the Utah

    Constitution or under Part 11 of this chapter, shall be assessed by the commission at 100% of fair

    market value, as valued on January 1, in accordance with this chapter:

        (a)  except as provided in Subsection (2), all property which operates as a unit across county

    lines, if the values must be apportioned among more than one county or state;

        (b)  all property of public utilities;

        (c)  all operating property of an airline, air charter service, and air contract service;

        (d)  all geothermal fluids and geothermal resources;

- 24 -


        (e)  all mines and mining claims except in cases, as determined by the commission, where

    the mining claims are used for other than mining purposes, in which case the value of mining claims

    used for other than mining purposes shall be assessed by the assessor of the county in which the

    mining claims are located; and

        (f)  all machinery used in mining, all property or surface improvements upon or appurtenant

    to mines or mining claims.  For the purposes of assessment and taxation, all processing plants, mills,

    reduction works, and smelters which are primarily used by the owner of a mine or mining claim for

    processing, reducing, or smelting minerals taken from a mine or mining claim shall be considered

    appurtenant to that mine or mining claim, regardless of actual location.

        (2)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax on state-assessed commercial

    vehicles at the time of original registration or annual renewal.

        (a)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax annually on state-assessed

    commercial vehicles which are registered pursuant to Section 41-1a-222 or 41-1a-228.

        (b)  State-assessed commercial vehicles brought into the state which are required to be

    registered in Utah shall, as a condition of registration, be subject to ad valorem tax unless all

    property taxes or fees imposed by the state of origin have been paid for the current calendar year.

        (c)  Real property, improvements, equipment, fixtures, or other personal property in this state

    owned by the company shall be assessed separately by the local county assessor.

        (d)  The commission shall adjust the value of state-assessed commercial vehicles as necessary

    to comply with Title 49, Section 11503a of the United States Code, and the commission shall direct

    the county assessor to apply the same adjustment to any personal property, real property, or

    improvements owned by the company and used directly and exclusively in their commercial vehicle

    activities.

        [(2)] (3)  The method for determining the fair market value of productive mining property

    is the capitalized net revenue method or any other valuation method the commission believes, or the

    taxpayer demonstrates to the commission's satisfaction, to be reasonably determinative of the fair

    market value of the mining property.  The rate of capitalization applicable to mines shall be

    determined by the commission, consistent with a fair rate of return expected by an investor in light

- 25 -


    of that industry's current market, financial, and economic conditions.  In no event may the fair

    market value of the mining property be less than the fair market value of the land, improvements,

    and tangible personal property upon or appurtenant to the mining property.

        [(3)  From January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1993, when determining the fair market value

    of the properties listed in Subsection (1), the commission should recognize and take into account that

    the effects of intangible values on real property may lessen the amount that may be received in a

    particular sales transaction, and may deduct up to 5% of the value of the real property to adjust for

    intangible values.  The Legislature finds that intangible values are not normally present in a personal

    property sales transaction and do not lessen the amount received in a sales transaction involving

    personal property.]

        (4)  Immediately following the assessment, the owner or operator of the assessed property

    shall be notified of the assessment.  The assessor of the county in which the property is located shall

    also be immediately notified of the assessment.

        (5)  Property assessed by the unitary method, which is not necessary to the conduct and does

    not contribute to the income of the business as determined by the commission, shall be assessed

    separately by the local county assessor. 

        Section 11.  Section  59-2-203 is amended to read:

         59-2-203.  Record of assessment of railroads and other companies -- Review by county

     assessor.

        (1)  Each year the commission shall prepare a record of assessment of railroads and [other]

    rail car companies.  The record shall include [each assessment, except assessments of mines, made

    by the commission, and the apportionment of assessment to each county.  The record shall include]:

        (a)  the name of the person to whom the property was assessed;

        (b)  the number of miles in the state;

        (c)  the number of miles in each county;

        (d)  the total assessment of that property; and

        (e)  the amount of the apportionment of the total assessment to each county.

        (2)  At least quarterly, the commission shall prepare a record of assessment of state-assessed

- 26 -


    commercial vehicles.

        [(2)] (3)  The record of the assessment and the information upon which the assessments and

    apportionments are made are available for review upon request by a county assessor. 

        Section 12.  Section  59-2-302 is amended to read:

         59-2-302.  Basis of property taxation for political subdivision.

        The assessments made by:

        (1)  the county assessor, as equalized by the county board of equalization and the

    commission; and

        (2)  the commission, as apportioned to each county, city, town, school, road, or other district

    in their respective counties, are the only basis of property taxation for political subdivisions of the

    state. 

        Section 13.  Section  59-2-327 is amended to read:

         59-2-327.  Taxes charged to county treasurer.

        The county auditor shall deliver the assessment roll, with the taxes extended, all orders of

    the county board of equalization and commission posted and all relief granted, prior to the time

    prescribed in Section 59-2-1317 for mailing the original tax notice, to the county treasurer, together

    with a report of the accumulated total which shall be considered a preliminary taxes charged amount. 

    On delivering the corrected assessment roll to the county treasurer, under Section 59-2-326, the

    county auditor shall charge the treasurer with the full amount of taxes levied, except the taxes of rail

    car companies and [automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and trailers employed in

    common-carrier business] state-assessed commercial vehicles, in an account established for the

    purpose.  The county auditor shall either report the final taxes charged or report the adjustments in

    taxable value and tax amounts from the preliminary taxes charged amount to the county treasurer

    for use in settling with all taxing entities under Section 59-2-1365. 

        Section 14.  Section  59-2-402 is amended to read:

         59-2-402.  Proportional assessment of transitory personal property brought from

     outside state -- Exemptions -- Reporting requirements -- Penalty for failure to file report --

     Claims for rebates and adjustments.

- 27 -


        (1)  If any taxable transitory personal property, other than property exempted under

    Subsection (2), is brought into the state at any time after the assessment date, a proportional

    assessment shall be made in accordance with rules adopted by the commission based upon the length

    of time that the property is in the state, but in no event may the minimum assessment be less than

    25% of the full year's assessment.

        (2)  The following property is exempt from proportional assessment under Subsection (1) for

    the year in which the license fee or tax is paid:

        (a)  property acquired during the calendar year;

        (b)  registered motor vehicles with a gross laden weight of 27,000 pounds or less; 

        (c)  vehicles that are registered and licensed in another state; [and]

        (d)  property subject to the provisions of Subsection 59-2-405(4); and

        (e)  state-assessed commercial vehicles.

        (3)  If any taxable transitory personal property is brought into the state at any time during the

    year, the owner of the property, or the owner's agent, shall immediately secure a personal property

    report form from the assessor, complete it in all pertinent respects, sign it, and file it with the

    assessor of the county in which the property is located.

        (4)  If the owner of the taxable transitory personal property, or the owner's agent, fails to

    secure, complete, and file a personal property report form with the county assessor, the assessor shall

    estimate the value of the property in accordance with Section 59-2-307.  Any failure on the part of

    the owner or agent to report as required by this subsection subjects the property owner to a penalty

    of 50% of the amount of tax finally determined to be due.

        (5)  An owner of taxable transitory personal property, except motor vehicles with a gross

    laden weight of 27,000 pounds or less, who has paid taxes on the personal property and who removes

    the property from the state prior to December, is entitled to a rebate of a proportionate share of the

    taxes paid as determined by the commission.  If a claim for rebate or adjustments is filed with the

    county auditor by December 10, the auditor shall immediately submit the claim with a

    recommendation to the county executive for its approval or denial.  If the claim is not approved prior

    to the end of the calendar year, or within 30 days after its submission, or if the claim is submitted

- 28 -


    after December 10, it shall be considered denied, and the owners of the property may file an action

    in the district court for a refund or an adjustment.

        Section 15.  Section  59-2-403 is amended to read:

         59-2-403.  Assessment of interstate state-assessed commercial vehicles --

     Apportionment.

        When assessing [contract, private, and exempt carriers] state-assessed commercial vehicles

    covering interstate routes, the [county assessor] commission shall apportion the assessment for the

    rolling stock used in interstate commerce at the same percentage ratio that has been filed with the

    [Prorate Department of the] Motor Vehicle Division of the commission for determining the proration

    of registration fees. 

        Section 16.  Section  59-2-405 is amended to read:

         59-2-405.  Uniform fee on tangible personal property required to be registered with the

     state.

        (1)   The property described in Subsection (2), except (2)(b) and (c), is exempt from ad

    valorem property taxes pursuant to Utah Constitution Article XIII, Section 14.

        (2)   There is levied [in lieu of the ad valorem tax] an annual statewide uniform fee in lieu

    of the ad valorem tax based on the value of motor vehicles, watercraft, recreational vehicles, and all

    other tangible personal property required to be registered with the state before it is used on a public

    highway, on a public waterway, on public land, or in the air.  The following personal property is

    exempt from the statewide uniform fee imposed by this section:

        (a)  aircraft;

        (b)  vintage vehicles as defined in Section 41-21-1;

        (c)  [interstate motor carriers entitled to protection under Title 49, Section 11503a of the

    United States Code] state-assessed commercial vehicles; and

        (d)  personal property that is exempt from state or county ad valorem property taxes under

    the laws of this state or of the federal government.

        (3)  The uniform fee is 1.7% of the fair market value of the personal property, as established

    by the commission.

- 29 -


        (4)  Notwithstanding Section 59-2-407, property subject to the uniform fee that is brought

    into the state and is required to be registered in Utah shall, as a condition of registration, be subject

    to the uniform fee unless all property taxes or uniform fees imposed by the state of origin have been

    paid for the current calendar year.

        (5) (a)  The revenues collected in each county from the uniform fee shall be distributed by

    the county to each taxing entity in which the property described in Subsection (2) is located in the

    same proportion in which revenue collected from ad valorem real property tax is distributed.

        (b)  Each taxing entity shall distribute the revenues received under Subsection (5)(a) in the

    same proportion in which revenue collected from ad valorem real property tax is distributed.

        (6)  Appeals of the valuation of the tangible personal property described in Subsection (2)

    shall be filed pursuant to Section 59-2-1005.

        Section 17.  Section  59-2-801 is amended to read:

         59-2-801.  Apportionment of property assessed by commission.

        (1)  After all objections are heard and disposed of and before May 25 of each year, the

    commission shall apportion the total assessment of all property assessed by it to the several tax areas

    as follows:

        [(1)] (a)  all property of public utilities, except the rolling stock, and all property of pipeline,

    power, canal, and irrigation companies, to each tax area through which the public utility, pipeline,

    power, canal, or irrigation company operates, in proportion to its value in each tax area;

        [(2)] (b)  the rolling stock of all railroads and street railroads, except the rolling stock

    included in Subsection [(3)] (2), to the tax areas through which railroads operate, in the proportion

    which the length of the main tracks, sidetracks, passing tracks, switches, and tramways of those

    railroads in each tax area bears to the total length of the main tracks, passing tracks and sidetracks,

    switches, and tramways in the state, with rolling stock of standard and narrow gauge railroads

    apportioned to their standard and narrow gauge lines, respectively;

        [(3)  the combined rolling stock of all automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and

    trailers employed in a common-carrier business by a public utility over principal routes, to the tax

    areas into or through which the principal routes extend in the proportion which the length of the

- 30 -


    principal routes within each tax area bears to the total length of the principal routes of the public

    utilities within the state as determined by the commission;]

        [(4)] (c)  the property of car companies, to the several tax areas in which railroads are

    operated, in the proportion which the length of main tracks, passing tracks, sidetracks, switches, and

    tramways of all railroads in each tax area bears to the total length of the main tracks, passing tracks,

    sidetracks, switches, and tramways of all railroads in the state; and

        [(5)] (d)  the assessment of all mines and mining claims and properties respectively to the tax

    area in which the mines or mining claims and properties assessed are located.

        (2)  State-assessed commercial vehicles shall be taxed at a statewide average rate which is

    calculated from the overall county average tax rates from the preceding year, exclusive of the

    property subject to the statewide uniform fee, weighted by lane miles of principal routes in each

    county.  The commission shall adopt rules to define "principal routes."

        (3)  The combined revenue from all state-assessed commercial vehicles shall be apportioned

    to the counties based on:

        (a)  40% by the percentage of lane miles of principal routes within each county as determined

    by the commission; and

        (b)  60% by the percentage of total state-assessed vehicles having business situs in each

    county.

        (4)  At least quarterly, the commission shall apportion the total taxes paid on state-assessed

    commercial vehicles to the counties.

        (5)  Each county shall apportion its share of the revenues to the taxing entities within its

    boundaries in the same proportion as other real and personal and other state-assessed property

    values. 

        Section 18.  Section  59-2-1307 is amended to read:

         59-2-1307.  Entries of tax payments made on rail cars or state-assessed commercial

     vehicles.

        (1)  The commission [shall], upon apportionment of the property of rail car companies and

    [of the owners of automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and trailers employed in

- 31 -


    common-carrier business] state-assessed commercial vehicles, shall proceed to collect the taxes from

    the owners of the property, and shall furnish each owner, by mail postage prepaid, a notice of the

    amount of the tax assessed against it, when and where payable, when delinquent, and the penalty

    provided by law.

        (a)  The commission shall remit taxes collected from owners of state-assessed commercial

    vehicles to each county treasurer at least quarterly.

        (b)  On or before the first Monday in January following in each year, the commission shall

    remit to the state treasurer [the] all other taxes collected and due the state, and to each county the

    taxes collected and due to it and to the various taxing entities included in the county.  The state

    treasurer and the treasurers of the several taxing entities shall make proper entries in their records

    of the receipt of the taxes.

        (2)  All railroads doing business in this state shall furnish the commission with any

    information required by the commission, within the knowledge of the railroad companies, which will

    aid the commission in the collection of taxes from rail car companies. 

        Section 19.  Section  59-2-1308 is amended to read:

         59-2-1308.  Property assessed by commission -- Collection procedures -- Exceptions.

        (1)  Property assessed by the commission, except the rolling stock of rail car companies and

    [automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and trailers employed in a common-carrier business]

    state-assessed commercial vehicles, shall be collected, billed, and payment enforced in the manner

    provided for the collection, billing, and enforcement of other general property taxes under this

    chapter.

        (2)  If the county treasurer finds that a person liable for the payment of ad valorem tax which

    is assessed by the commission under Section 59-2-201, except upon the assessment of the rolling

    stock of rail car companies and [of automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and trailers

    employed in a common-carrier business] state-assessed commercial vehicles, gives any indication

    of either departing from this state, or removing the person's property from this state, or doing any

    other act which may prejudice or hinder the collection process for any assessment period, the county

    treasurer may declare any ad valorem tax liability immediately due and payable.  If the tax is not

- 32 -


    paid as provided in this chapter, the collection shall be made by the county treasurer in the same

    manner as is provided for the collection of delinquent taxes under Sections 59-2-1302 and 59-2-1303

    for personal property and Section 59-2-1331 for all other property, including personal property listed

    with real property under Section 59-2-1302.  The provisions under Sections 59-2-1302 and

    59-2-1303 apply to assessment by the commission or the county assessor, except the rolling stock

    of rail car companies and [automobiles, motor stages, motor transports, and trailers employed in a

    common-carrier business] state-assessed commercial vehicles. 

        Section 20.  Section  59-2-1309 is amended to read:

         59-2-1309.  Publication by commission -- Seizure and sale -- Redemption -- Distribution

     of proceeds.

        (1) (a)  On or before December 15 of each year, the commission shall publish in a newspaper

    having general circulation in the state a list of the delinquent rail car companies and [of the owners

    of automobiles, motor transports, stages, and trailers employed in a common-carrier business over

    principal routes, the value of which is required to be apportioned to the several counties according

    to the length of the principal routes] state-assessed commercial vehicles.  The list shall contain the

    names of the owners, when known, and a general description of the property assessed as to which

    the taxes are delinquent, and the amount of the delinquent taxes.  The commission shall publish with

    the list a notice that unless the delinquent taxes, together with the penalty, are paid before December

    21, the property of the delinquent or so much of it as may be necessary to pay the amount of the

    taxes, penalty, and interest at the rate prescribed in Section 59-1-402 from December 31 to the date

    of sale, shall be seized and sold for taxes, interest, and costs, the sale to be made at any time and

    place at the discretion of the commission.  The provisions of law governing the seizure and sale by

    county treasurers of personal property for delinquent taxes shall apply to sales made by the

    commission under this section, except that notice of the time and place of the sale shall be given by

    publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the state.

        (2)  Property seized by the commission pursuant to this section may be redeemed, at any time

    prior to the sale, by payment of the full amount of taxes due from the delinquent together with all

    penalties, interest, and the costs then accrued.

- 33 -


        (3)  All sums collected by the commission upon the sale or redemption of property pursuant

    to this section shall be immediately distributed as follows:

        (a)  all interest, penalties, and costs to the appropriate county treasurer; and

        (b)  any excess over the taxes, penalties, interest, and cost shall be deposited with the state

    treasurer subject to the order of the owner of the property sold, or the owner's heirs or assigns. 

        Section 21.   Retrospective operation.

        This act has retrospective operation to January 1, 1997.

- 34 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







