Sponsors: []Modifications: titlemaymaymaymaythisand.may(a)may:(i);(ii);(iii);(iv);(v);(vi);(vii)(b)established under Subsection (5)(a)(a)may(6)(b)(a)maythis(b)  Rules made under Subsection (7)(a):(i)  An(ii)  Any(c)this(i)(ii)(iii)(iv)in havingthe records available:(A);(B)(a)may(b)  Ifmay(i)(ii)(iii)(iv)(v)(vi)(vii)(A)(B)(C)(D)(E)maymaytheadvertised under Subsection (10)(a)maymaymaymaythe rules adopted6535151210the next6; and(g)  on all amounts over $600,000,000 of these assets, 4 cents per $1,000.instead of the feerequired under Subsection (1)that do not paya fee under Subsections (1) through (4)by filing a request for agency actionwith the commissioner,:(a);(b);(c)the requestwrittencommissioner designatesIf aconcerning the requestrequired by Subsection (4)(a)act upon the requestthe commissionerrequest within 90 days of receipt of the request:(i)application;(ii)  additional information filed with the commissioner; and(iii)actrequestthe commissionerthea requestthe commissionerbank(2)  The commissioner may, by rule or order, determine that necessary or incidental rights,privileges, and powers include:(a)  the rights, privileges, and powers held by national banks; or(b)  other business activities so long as the commissioner's determination is not inconsistentwith the rules, regulations, or other actions of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve Systemunder Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. Sec. 1843(c)(8).(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), a bank may not make an investment or loandescribed in Subsection (1)(b) if the aggregate of the investments and loans described in Subsections(1)(b)(i) and (ii) plus any indebtedness incurred by any corporation holding the premises of the bankwhich is an affiliate of the bank, exceeds the greater of:(i)  the amount of the capital stock and surplus of the bank; or(ii)  50% of the total capital accounts of the bank.(b)  If an investment or loan will violate Subsection (1)(a), a bank may not:(i)(ii)(2)  A bank may make an investment or loan prohibited under Subsection (1) with the priorwritten approval of the commissioner if the bank can demonstrate reasonable need for the investmentor loan to the commissioner.Title 16, Chapter 10aa domestic corporationas anThis act takes effect on July 1, 1997, except Section 7-8-3 takes effect if approved bytwo-thirds of all the members elected to each house, upon approval by the governor, or the dayfollowing the constitutional time limit of Utah Constitution, Article VII, Section 8, without thegovernor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of the veto override.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0100.ZIP 16,652 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 100 Enrolled








 
    FINANCIAL INSTITUTION AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: L.  Alma Mansell


    AN ACT RELATING TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS; AMENDING POWERS AND

    DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS; REVISING FEES;

    AMENDING APPLICATION PROCEDURE; AMENDING POWERS, RIGHTS, AND

    PRIVILEGES OF BANKS; AMENDING BANK PROHIBITED INVESTMENTS AND

    LOANS; AMENDING COMMISSIONER'S AUTHORITY TO AUTHORIZE

    INDUSTRIAL LOAN CORPORATIONS TO CONDUCT BUSINESSES; MAKING

    TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         7-1-301, as last amended by Chapter 49, Laws of Utah 1995

         7-1-401, as last amended by Chapters 63 and 182, Laws of Utah 1996

         7-1-706, as last amended by Chapter 161, Laws of Utah 1987

         7-3-10, as last amended by Chapter 49, Laws of Utah 1995

         7-3-12, as last amended by Chapter 30, Laws of Utah 1992

         7-8-3, as last amended by Chapter 200, Laws of Utah 1994

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  7-1-301 is amended to read:

         7-1-301.  Powers and duties of commissioner -- Rulemaking.

        Without limiting the other powers, duties, and responsibilities specified in this title, the

    commissioner has all the functions, powers, duties, and responsibilities with respect to institutions,

    persons, or businesses subject to the jurisdiction of the department contained in this [article] title,

    including all of the following:

        (1)  The commissioner [has power to] may govern the administration and operation of the

    department.

        (2)  The commissioner [has power to] may supervise the conduct, operation, management,


    examination, and statements and reports of examinations of financial institutions and other persons

    subject to the jurisdiction of the department.

        (3) (a)  The commissioner [has power to] may authorize a state chartered depository

    institution to engage in any activity it could engage in, and to grant to that institution all additional

    rights, powers, privileges, benefits, or immunities it would possess, if it were chartered under the

    laws of the United States.

        (b)  The commissioner [has power to] may authorize a depository institution chartered by this

    state to engage in any activity that a Utah branch of an out-of-state depository institution of the same

    class can engage in, and to grant to the Utah institution all additional rights, powers, privileges,

    benefits, or immunities it needs to engage in the activity.

        (c)  In granting authority under this Subsection (3), the commissioner shall consider:

        (i)  the need for competitive equality between institutions chartered by this state and

    institutions operating in this state that are chartered by another state or by the federal government;

    and

        (ii)  the adverse effect on shareholders, members, depositors, and other customers of 

    financial institutions chartered by this state if equal power and protection of those institutions,

    compared with federally chartered or out-of-state institutions of the same class, are not promptly

    available[; and].

        [(iii)  whether circumstances are such that awaiting action by the Legislature would unduly

    prejudice institutions chartered by this state, their shareholders, members, depositors, or other

    customers, or adversely affect the public interest.]

        (4)  The commissioner [has power to] may safeguard the interest of shareholders, members,

    depositors, and other customers of institutions and other persons subject to the jurisdiction of the

    department.

        (5) (a)  The commissioner [has power to] may establish criteria consistent with this title to

    be applied in granting applications for approval of:

        (i)  a new institution[,];

        (ii)  a new branch[,];

- 2 -


        (iii)  the relocation of an office or branch[,];

        (iv)  a merger[,];

        (v)  a consolidation[,];

        (vi)  a change in control of an institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the

    department[,]; and

        (vii)  other applications specified in this title.

        (b)  The criteria established under Subsection (5)(a) may not be applied to make it more

    difficult for a state chartered institution to obtain approval of an application than for a federally

    chartered institution in the same class to obtain approval from the appropriate federal regulatory

    agency or administrator.

        (6) (a)  The commissioner [has power to] may protect the privacy of the records of any

    institution subject to the jurisdiction of the department pertaining to a particular depositor or other

    customer of the institution.  Rules adopted under this Subsection (6) shall be consistent with federal

    laws and regulations applicable to the institution.

        (b)  Any institution that consents to produce records or that is required to produce records

    in compliance with a subpoena or other order of a court of competent jurisdiction or in compliance

    with an order obtained pursuant to Sections 78-27-45 through 78-27-50 shall be reimbursed for the

    cost of retrieval and reproduction of the records by the party seeking the information.  The

    commissioner may by rule establish the rates and conditions under which reimbursement is made.

        (7) (a)  The commissioner [has power to] may classify all records kept by institutions subject

    to the jurisdiction of the department and to prescribe the period for which each class of records is

    retained.  Rules adopted under this Subsection (7) for any class of financial institution shall be

    consistent with federal laws and regulations applicable to the class. [These rules]

        (b)  Rules made under Subsection (7)(a) shall provide that [an]:

        (i)  An institution may dispose of any record after retaining it for the period prescribed by

    the commissioner for retention of records of its class.  If an institution disposes of a record after the

    prescribed period, the institution has no duty to produce it in any action or proceeding and is not

    liable to any person by reason of that disposition.  [The rules shall also provide that any]

- 3 -


        (ii)  Any institution may keep records in its custody in the form of microfilm or equivalent

    reproduction. Any such reproduction shall have the same force and effect as the original and shall

    be admissible into evidence as if it were the original.

        (c)  In adopting rules under this Subsection (7), the commissioner shall take into

    consideration:

        [(a)] (i)  actions at law and administrative proceedings in which the production of the records

    might be necessary or desirable;

        [(b)] (ii)  state and federal statutes of limitation applicable to the actions or proceedings;

        [(c)] (iii)  the availability from other sources of information contained in these records; and

        [(d)] (iv)  other matters the commissioner considers pertinent in formulating rules that require

    institutions to retain their records for as short a period as commensurate with the interest in having

    the records available of:

        (A)  customers, members, depositors, and shareholders of the institutions; and [of]

        (B)  the people of this state [in having the records available].

        (8) (a)  The commissioner [has power to] may establish reasonable classes of depository and

    other financial institutions including separate classes for savings and loan associations and related

    institutions, banks and related institutions, credit unions, and industrial loan corporations. [So long

    as]

        (b)  If the restrictions or requirements the commissioner imposes are not more stringent than

    those applicable under federal law or regulation to federally chartered institutions of the same class,

    the commissioner [has power to] may establish the following for each class in a manner consistent

    with this title:

        [(a)] (i)  eligible classes and types of investments for the deposits and other funds of those

    financial institutions;

        [(b)] (ii)  minimum standards, in amounts sufficient to protect depositors and other creditors,

    for the amount and types of capital required to engage in the business conducted by each class or to

    obtain a license or to establish a branch or additional office of an institution of each class;

        [(c)] (iii)  eligible obligations, reserves, and other accounts to be included in the computation

- 4 -


    of capital;

        [(d)] (iv)  minimum liquidity requirements for financial institutions within each class in

    amounts sufficient to meet the demands of depositors and other creditors for liquid funds;

        [(e)] (v)  limitations on the amount and type of borrowings by each class of financial

    institution in relation to the amount of its capital and the character and condition of its assets and its

    deposits and other liabilities;

        [(f)] (vi)  limitations on the amount and nature of loans and extensions of credit to any person

    or related persons by each class of financial institution in relation to the amount of its capital; and

        [(g)] (vii)  limitations on the amount and nature of loans and extensions of credit by a

    financial institution or other person within each class to an executive officer, director, or principal

    shareholder of:

        [(i)] (A)  the institution or other person;

        [(ii)] (B)  any company of which the institution or other person is a subsidiary;

        [(iii)] (C)  any subsidiary of the institution or other person;

        [(iv)] (D)  any affiliate of the institution; and

        [(v)] (E)  a company controlled by an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of

    the institution.

        (9)  The commissioner [has power to] may define unfair trade practices of financial

    institutions and other persons subject to the jurisdiction of the department and to prohibit or restrict

    these practices.

        (10)  The commissioner [has power to] may establish reasonable standards to promote the

    fair and truthful advertising of:

        (a)  services offered by a financial institution;

        (b)  the charges for [these] the services advertised under Subsection (10)(a);

        (c)  the interest or other compensation to be paid on deposits or any debt instrument offered

    for sale by the institution;

        (d)  the nature and extent of any insurance on deposits, savings accounts, share accounts,

    certificates of deposit, time deposit accounts, NOW accounts, share draft accounts, transaction

- 5 -


    accounts, or any evidence of indebtedness issued, offered for sale, offered to sell or sold by any

    financial institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the department; and

        (e)  the safety or financial soundness of any financial institution or other person subject to

    the jurisdiction of the department.

        (11)  The commissioner [has power to] may define what constitutes an impairment of capital

    for each class of financial institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the department.

        (12)  The commissioner [has power to] may designate days on which depository institutions

    are closed in accordance with Section 7-1-808.

        (13)  The commissioner [has power to] may regulate the issuance, advertising, offer for sale,

    and sale of a security to the extent authorized by Section 7-1-503.

        (14)  The commissioner [has power to] may require the officers of any institution or other

    person subject to the commissioner's jurisdiction to open and keep a standard set of books, computer

    records, or both for the purpose of keeping accurate and convenient records of the transactions and

    accounts of the institution in a manner to enable the commissioner, supervisors, and department

    examiners to readily ascertain the institution's true condition.  These requirements shall be consistent

    with generally accepted accounting principles for financial institutions.

        (15)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the

    commissioner may adopt and issue rules consistent with the purposes and provisions of this title, and

    may revise, amend, or repeal [them] the rules adopted.

        Section 2.  Section  7-1-401 is amended to read:

         7-1-401.  Fees payable to commissioner.

        (1)  Each depository institution under the jurisdiction of the department, except an

    out-of-state depository institution with a branch in Utah, shall pay an annual fee computed upon the

    basis of aggregate assets [in Utah], as shown upon the year-end report of condition at the following

    rates:

        (a)  on the first $5,000,000 of these assets, [77] 65 cents per $1,000 or $500, whichever is

    greater;

        (b)  on the next $10,000,000 of these assets, [41] 35 cents per $1,000;

- 6 -


        (c)  on the next $35,000,000 of these assets, [23] 15 cents per $1,000;

        (d)  on the next $50,000,000 of these assets, [15] 12 cents per $1,000;

        (e)  on the next $200,000,000 of these assets, [13] 10 cents per $1,000; [and]

        (f)  on [all amounts over] the next $300,000,000 of these assets, [9] 6 cents per $1,000[.]; and

        (g)  on all amounts over $600,000,000 of these assets, 4 cents per $1,000.

        (2)  A financial  institution with a trust department shall pay a fee for each examination of

    the trust department by state examiners.

        (3)  A credit union in its first year of operation shall pay a basic fee of $25 instead of the fee

    required under Subsection (1).

        (4)  A trust company that is not a depository institution or a subsidiary of a depository

    institution holding company shall pay an annual fee of $500 and an additional fee for each

    examination by state examiners.

        (5)  All other persons and institutions under the jurisdiction of the department that do not pay

    a fee under Subsections (1) through (4) shall pay an annual fee of $100 and an additional fee for each

    examination by state examiners.

        (6)  An applicant under Section 7-1-503, 7-1-702, 7-1-703, 7-1-704, 7-1-713, 7-5-3, or

    7-18a-202 shall pay:

        (a)  a filing fee of $500; and

        (b)  all reasonable expenses incurred in processing the application.

        (7)  Per diem assessments for examinations shall be calculated at the rate of $40 per hour for

    each examiner up to a maximum of $320 per examiner per day.  For examination of branches or

    offices of financial institutions located outside of this state, the institution shall also pay all

    reasonable travel, lodging, and other expenses incurred by each examiner while conducting the

    examination.

        [(8)  Each out-of-state depository institution with a branch in Utah shall pay a basic fee  of

    the greater of $500 or .0001 of all deposits held in Utah branches on December 31 of the preceding

    year.  The institution shall also pay an additional per diem fee for each examiner as set forth in

    Subsection (7).]

- 7 -


        Section 3.  Section  7-1-706 is amended to read:

         7-1-706.  Application to commissioner to exercise power -- Procedure.

        (1)  Except as provided in Sections 7-1-704 and 7-1-705, by filing a request for agency action

    with the commissioner, any person may request the commissioner to:

        (a)  issue any rule or order[, to];

        (b)  exercise any powers granted to the commissioner under this title[,]; or [to]

        (c)  act on any matter that is subject to the approval of the commissioner [by filing a request

    for agency action with the commissioner].

        (2)  Within ten days of receipt of the request, the commissioner shall, at the applicant's

    expense, cause a supervisor to make a careful investigation of the facts relevant or material to [such

    application] the request.

        (3) (a)  The supervisor shall submit [his] written findings and recommendations [in writing]

    to the commissioner [as required by the department's rules].

        (b)  The application, any additional information furnished by the applicant, and the findings

    and recommendations of the supervisor may be inspected by any person at the office of the

    commissioner, except those portions of the application or report that the [rules of the department

    designate] commissioner designates as confidential [in order] to prevent a clearly unwarranted

    invasion of privacy.

        (4) (a)  [Before the] If a hearing is held concerning the request, the commissioner shall

    publish notice of the hearing at the applicant's expense in a newspaper of general circulation within

    the county where the applicant is located at least once a week for three successive weeks before the

    date of the hearing.

        (b)  The notice required by Subsection (4)(a) shall include the information required by the

    department's rules.

        (c)  The commissioner shall [take action] act upon the request within 30 days after the close

    of the hearing, based on the record before [him] the commissioner.

        (5) (a)  If no hearing is held, the commissioner shall approve or disapprove the [application]

    request within 90 days of receipt of the request based on:

- 8 -


        (i)  the [papers filed with him, together with] application;

        (ii)  additional information filed with the commissioner; and

        (iii)  the findings and recommendations of the supervisor[, within 90 days of receipt of the

    application].

        (b)  The commissioner shall [take action] act on the [application] request by issuing [his]

    findings of fact, conclusions, and an order, and shall mail a copy of each to:

        (i)  the applicant;

        (ii)  all persons who have filed protests to the granting of the application; and

        (iii)  [whatever] other persons that [he] the commissioner considers should receive copies

    [under the circumstances].

        (6)  The commissioner may impose any conditions or limitations on [his] the approval or

    disapproval of [an application] a request that [he] the commissioner considers proper to:

        (a)  protect the interest of creditors, depositors, and other customers of an institution;

        (b)  protect its shareholders or members; and

        (c)  carry out the purposes of this title. 

        Section 4.  Section  7-3-10 is amended to read:

         7-3-10.  Powers, rights, and privileges of banking corporation -- Other business

     activities.

        (1)  In addition to the powers granted under Title 16, Chapter 10a, Utah Revised Business

    Corporation Act, a [banking corporation] bank has all the rights, privileges, and powers necessary

    or incidental to carrying on the business of banking.  [Necessary or incidental powers include all

    rights, privileges, and powers held by national banks.]

        [(2)  Subject to the approval of the commissioner, after notice and opportunity for hearing,

    any bank operating a main office or branch in this state may, either directly or indirectly through a

    subsidiary or affiliate, engage in other business activities determined by the commissioner by rule

    or order to be closely related to banking.  This determination may not be inconsistent with rules,

    regulations, or other actions of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System under Section

    4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.]

- 9 -


        (2)  The commissioner may, by rule or order, determine that necessary or incidental rights,

    privileges, and powers include:

        (a)  the rights, privileges, and powers held by national banks; or

        (b)  other business activities so long as the commissioner's determination is not inconsistent

    with the rules, regulations, or other actions of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System

    under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. Sec. 1843(c)(8).

        (3)  The commissioner shall implement this section in a manner consistent with the purposes

    set forth in Section 7-1-102. 

        Section 5.  Section  7-3-12 is amended to read:

         7-3-12.  Prohibited investments and loans.

        [Unless the prior written approval of the commissioner is obtained and a reasonable need for

    such investment can be shown, no bank may:]

        (1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), a bank may not make an investment or loan

    described in Subsection (1)(b) if the aggregate of the investments and loans described in Subsections

    (1)(b)(i) and (ii) plus any indebtedness incurred by any corporation holding the premises of the bank

    which is an affiliate of the bank, exceeds the greater of:

        (i)  the amount of the capital stock and surplus of the bank; or

        (ii)  50% of the total capital accounts of the bank.

        (b)  If an investment or loan will violate Subsection (1)(a), a bank may not:

        [(1)] (i)  invest in its own premises including furniture, fixtures and equipment, or in the

    stock, bonds, debentures, or other obligations of any corporation holding the premises of the bank;

    or

        [(2)] (ii)  make loans to or upon the security of the stock of any corporation holding the

    bank's premises[, if the aggregate of these investments and loans, plus any indebtedness incurred by

    any such corporation which is an affiliate of the bank, exceeds the amount of the capital stock and

    surplus or 50% of the total capital accounts of the bank, whichever is greater.  Upon application to

    and approval by the commissioner, a bank may exceed this limitation].

        (2)  A bank may make an investment or loan prohibited under Subsection (1) with the prior

- 10 -


    written approval of the commissioner if the bank can demonstrate reasonable need for the investment

    or loan to the commissioner.

        Section 6.  Section  7-8-3 is amended to read:

         7-8-3.  Organization under Business Corporation Act -- Authorization to conduct

     business.

        (1)  Each domestic corporation organized to conduct the business of an industrial loan

    corporation in this state shall be organized under Title 16, Chapter 10a, Utah Revised Business

    Corporation Act.  All rights, privileges, powers, duties, and obligations of the corporation and its

    officers, directors, and stockholders shall be governed by [that chapter] Title 16, Chapter 10a, except

    as otherwise provided in this title.

        (2)  The commissioner may authorize [an industrial loan corporation] a domestic corporation

    to conduct business [or receive deposits from the public only if its corporate purposes are limited in

    its articles of incorporation to the acquisition of, the merger with, the assumption of all or a portion

    of the liabilities of, or the acquisition of all or a portion of the assets of a failing or failed] as an

    industrial loan corporation.

        Section 7.   Effective date.

        This act takes effect on July 1, 1997, except Section 7-8-3 takes effect if approved by

    two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, upon approval by the governor, or the day

    following the constitutional time limit of Utah Constitution, Article VII, Section 8, without the

    governor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of the veto override.

- 11 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







