Sponsors: []Modifications: (1).(2)  An action brought under this chapter may not be tried as a small claims action andto the extentor.judicial districtFull text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0104.ZIP 7,610 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 104 Enrolled





            

    
COURT JURISDICTION AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO THE JUDICIAL CODE; PROHIBITING ACTIONS AGAINST
            

    
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES FROM BEING TRIED AS SMALL CLAIMS ACTIONS;
            

    
CLARIFYING THE JURISDICTIONAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MUNICIPAL AND
            

    
COUNTY JUSTICE COURTS; AND MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     63-30-16, as last amended by Chapter 129, Laws of Utah 1983
            

    
     78-5-101.5, as enacted by Chapter 313, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     78-5-138, as enacted by Chapter 157, Laws of Utah 1989
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
63-30-16

 is amended to read:
            

    
     63-30-16.  Jurisdiction of district courts over actions -- Application of Rules of Civil
            

    
 Procedure.
            

    
    (1)  The district courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over any action brought
            

    
under this chapter[, and such actions].
            

    
    (2)  An action brought under this chapter may not be tried as a small claims action and shall
            

    
be governed by the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure [in so far as] to the extent they are consistent
            

    
with this chapter.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
78-5-101.5

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-5-101.5.  Creation of Justice Courts -- Classes of Justice Courts.
            

    
    (1) (a)  For the purposes of this section, to "create a justice court" means to:
            

    
    (i)  establish a justice court; or
            

    
    (ii)  establish a justice court under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act[; or].
            

    
    [(iii)  adjudicate those matters within the jurisdiction of the justice court in a county
            

    
precinct justice court.]

            

    
    (b)  A municipality or county that has created a justice court may change the form of its court
            

    
to another listed in Subsection (1)(a) without being considered to have created a court.
            

    
    (2)  Justice courts shall be divided into the following classes:
            

    
    (a)  Class I: 501 or more citations or cases filed per month;
            

    
    (b)  Class II: 201-500 citations or cases filed per month;
            

    
    (c)  Class III: 61-200 citations or cases filed per month; and
            

    
    (d)  Class IV: 60 or fewer citations or cases filed per month.
            

    
    (3)  Municipalities or counties can elect to create a Class I or Class II justice court by filing
            

    
a written declaration with the Judicial Council on or before July 1 at least two years prior to the
            

    
effective date of the election.  Upon demonstration of compliance with operating standards as
            

    
established by statute and the Judicial Council, the Judicial Council shall certify the creation of the
            

    
court pursuant to Section 

78-5-139

.
            

    
    (4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5), municipalities or counties can elect to create
            

    
a Class III or Class IV justice court by establishing the need for the court and filing a written
            

    
declaration with the Judicial Council on or before July 1 at least one year prior to the effective date
            

    
of the election.
            

    
    (b)  In evaluating the need for the creation of a Class III or Class IV justice court, the Judicial
            

    
Council shall consider factors of population, case filings, public convenience, availability of law
            

    
enforcement agencies and court support services, proximity to other courts, and any special
            

    
circumstances.
            

    
    (c)  The Judicial Council shall determine whether the municipality or county seeking to create
            

    
a Class III or Class IV justice court has established the need for the court.
            

    
    (d)  Upon demonstration of compliance with operating standards as established by statute and
            

    
the Judicial Council, the Judicial Council shall certify the creation of the court pursuant to Section
            

    

78-5-139

.
            

    
    (5) (a)  The following municipalities may create a justice court by filing a written declaration
            

    
with the Judicial Council: American Fork, Bountiful, Brigham City, Cedar City, Clearfield, Elk
            

    
Ridge, Kaysville, Layton, Logan, Moab, Murray, Ogden, Orem, Park City, Price, Provo, Richfield,

- 2 -

            

    
Roosevelt, Roy, Salem, Salt Lake City, Sandy, Spanish Fork, St. George, Taylorsville, Tooele,
            

    
Vernal, and West Valley City.
            

    
    (b)  To form a Class I or Class II justice court, the municipalities listed in Subsection (5)(a)
            

    
shall file a written declaration with the Judicial Council on or before July 1 at least two years prior
            

    
to the effective date of the election.
            

    
    (c)  To form a Class III or Class IV justice court, the municipalities listed in Subsection (5)(a)
            

    
shall file a written declaration with the Judicial Council on or before July 1 at least one year prior
            

    
to the effective date of the election.
            

    
    (d)  Upon demonstration of compliance with operating standards as established by statute and
            

    
the Judicial Council, the Judicial Council shall certify the creation of the court pursuant to Section
            

    

78-5-139

.
            

    
    (6)  Upon request from a municipality or county seeking to create a justice court, the Judicial
            

    
Council may shorten the time required between the city's or county's written declaration or election
            

    
to create a justice court and the effective date of the election.
            

    
    (7)  The Judicial Council may by rule provide resources and procedures adequate for the
            

    
timely disposition of all matters brought before the courts.  The administrative office of the courts
            

    
and local governments shall cooperate in allocating resources to operate the courts in the most
            

    
efficient and effective manner based on the allocation of responsibility between courts of record and
            

    
not of record.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
78-5-138

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-5-138.  Temporary justice court judge.
            

    
    If a justice court judge is absent or disqualified, the appointing authority may appoint another
            

    
justice court judge currently holding office within the [county] judicial district to serve as a
            

    
temporary justice court judge.  A retired justice court judge may also be appointed as a temporary
            

    
justice court judge under rule of the Supreme Court.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







