Sponsors: []Modifications: functions, powers, duties, and responsibilities described in Subsections (1)through (15).

78-27-50.5

(1)  As used in Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50.5

:(a)  "Financial institution" means:(i)  a financial institution as defined in Section 

7-1-103

; or(ii)  a depository institution as defined in Section 

7-1-103

.(b)  "Governmental entity" means:(i)  the state, including all departments, institutions, boards, divisions, bureaus, offices,commissions, committees, and elected officials; and(ii)  any political subdivision of the state, including any county, city, town, school district,public transit district, redevelopment agency, special improvement, or taxing district.(c)  "Nonprotected record" means a record maintained by the financial institution to facilitatethe conduct of its business regarding a person or account, including:(i)  the existence of an account;(ii)  the opening and closing dates of an account;(iii)  the name under which an account is held; and(iv)  the name, address, and telephone number of an account holder.(d)  "Protected record" means a record not defined as a nonprotected record; and(e)  "Record" means information that is:(i)  prepared, owned, received, or retained by a financial institution;(ii) (A)  inscribed on a tangible medium; or(B)  stored in an electronic or other medium; and(iii)  retrievable in perceivable form.(2)  Except as provided in Section 

78-27-50

, an individualagovernmental entity,,obtainthat constitutes a record:(a)that is named or referenced in the record;(b)record(3)a reviewa report(a)  Ifthe governmental entity that obtained the order shall notifythat a court order has been obtained:(i); and(ii)(b)required by Subsection (1)(a):(i)that;(ii)  a copy ofthe order;(iii)(a):(i);(ii)entitled to notice.(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), if thethat,(1):(a);(b)with the order(2)ongovernmental entity(1)  Agovernmental entityif the financial institution produces the record:(a)  pursuant to permission by the person named or referenced in the record in accordancewith Section 

78-27-45;

(b)  in compliance with an order obtained under Section 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50.5

; or(c)  in compliance with an order of a court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction(2)rule(1)  InformationSections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-47

 may not(2):(a);(b)Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-47

 dowhen:(a)  a;(b)  a;(c)  a;(d)  a;(e)  a;(f)  a;(g);(h);(i);(j);(k); or(l)  the state auditor(2)  Except for the Office of Recovery Services, if a governmental entity listed in Subsection(1) seeks a record, the entity shall obtain the record as follows:(a)  if the record is a nonprotected record, by request in writing that:(i)  certifies that an official investigation is being conducted; and(ii)  is signed by a representative of the governmental entity that is conducting the officialinvestigation; or(b)  if the record is a protected record, by obtaining:(i)  a subpoena authorized by statute; or(ii)  other legal process:(A)  ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction; and(B)   served upon the financial institution.(3)  If the Office of Recovery Services seeks a record, it shall obtain the record pursuant to:(a)  Subsection 

62A-11-104

(8);(b)  Section 

62A-11-304.1

;(c)  Section 

62A-11-304.5

; or(d)  Title IV, Part D of the Social Security Act as codified in 42 U.S.C. 651 et seq.(4)  A financial institution may not give notice to any person named or referenced within therecord disclosed pursuant to Subsection (2)(a).(5) In accordance with Section 

78-27-48

, the agency conducting the official investigation thatobtains a record from a financial institution under this section shall reimburse the financialinstitutionfor costs reasonably and directly incurred by the financial institution.    78-27-50.5.A financial institution is not liable to any person named or referenced within a record:(1)  for any disclosure that is the result of a subpoena, order, or request made pursuant toSections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50

 if the financial institution reasonably believes that the subpoena,order, or request is properly made under Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50

; or(2)  for any disclosure or action taken in good faith pursuant to a data match or administrativesubpoena provided for by the statutes listed in Subsection 

78-27-50

(3).Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0148.ZIP 13,877 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 148 Enrolled





            

    
PRIVACY OF FINANCIAL RECORDS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Karen  Hale

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO THE JUDICIAL CODE; AMENDING PROVISIONS RELATED TO
            

    
A GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY OBTAINING FINANCIAL INFORMATION; DEFINING
            

    
TERMS; ADDRESSING LIABILITIES OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS; AND MAKING
            

    
TECHNICAL CHANGES.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     7-1-301, as last amended by Chapter 91, Laws of Utah 1997
            

    
     78-27-45, as last amended by Chapter 241, Laws of Utah 1989
            

    
     78-27-46, as enacted by Chapter 143, Laws of Utah 1977
            

    
     78-27-47, as enacted by Chapter 143, Laws of Utah 1977
            

    
     78-27-48, as enacted by Chapter 143, Laws of Utah 1977
            

    
     78-27-49, as enacted by Chapter 143, Laws of Utah 1977
            

    
     78-27-50, as last amended by Chapter 316, Laws of Utah 1994
            

    
ENACTS:
            

    
     78-27-50.5, Utah Code Annotated 1953
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
7-1-301

 is amended to read:
            

    
     7-1-301.  Powers and duties of commissioner -- Rulemaking.
            

    
    Without limiting the other powers, duties, and responsibilities specified in this title, the
            

    
commissioner has all the functions, powers, duties, and responsibilities with respect to institutions,
            

    
persons, or businesses subject to the jurisdiction of the department contained in this title, including
            

    
all of the [following:] functions, powers, duties, and responsibilities described in Subsections (1)
            

    
through (15).
            

    
    (1)  The commissioner may govern the administration and operation of the department.
            

    
    (2)  The commissioner may supervise the conduct, operation, management, examination,

            

    
and statements and reports of examinations of financial institutions and other persons subject to the
            

    
jurisdiction of the department.
            

    
    (3) (a)  The commissioner may authorize a state chartered depository institution to engage
            

    
in any activity it could engage in, and to grant to that institution all additional rights, powers,
            

    
privileges, benefits, or immunities it would possess, if it were chartered under the laws of the United
            

    
States.
            

    
    (b) The commissioner may authorize a depository institution chartered by this state to engage
            

    
in any activity that a Utah branch of an out-of-state depository institution of the same class can
            

    
engage in, and to grant to the Utah institution all additional rights, powers, privileges, benefits, or
            

    
immunities it needs to engage in the activity.
            

    
    (c)  In granting authority under this Subsection (3), the commissioner shall consider:
            

    
    (i)  the need for competitive equality between institutions chartered by this state and
            

    
institutions operating in this state that are chartered by another state or by the federal government;
            

    
and
            

    
    (ii)  the adverse effect on shareholders, members, depositors, and other customers of financial
            

    
institutions chartered by this state if equal power and protection of those institutions, compared with
            

    
federally chartered or out-of-state institutions of the same class, are not promptly available.
            

    
    (4)  The commissioner may safeguard the interest of shareholders, members, depositors, and
            

    
other customers of institutions and other persons subject to the jurisdiction of the department.
            

    
    (5) (a)  The commissioner may establish criteria consistent with this title to be applied in
            

    
granting applications for approval of:
            

    
    (i)  a new institution;
            

    
    (ii)  a new branch;
            

    
    (iii)  the relocation of an office or branch;
            

    
    (iv)  a merger;
            

    
    (v)  a consolidation;
            

    
    (vi)  a change in control of an institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the
            

    
department; and

- 2 -

            

    
    (vii)  other applications specified in this title.
            

    
    (b)  The criteria established under Subsection (5)(a) may not be applied to make it more
            

    
difficult for a state chartered institution to obtain approval of an application than for a federally
            

    
chartered institution in the same class to obtain approval from the appropriate federal regulatory
            

    
agency or administrator.
            

    
    (6) (a)  The commissioner may protect the privacy of the records of any institution subject
            

    
to the jurisdiction of the department pertaining to a particular depositor or other customer of the
            

    
institution.  Rules adopted under this Subsection (6) shall be consistent with federal laws and
            

    
regulations applicable to the institution.
            

    
    (b)  Any institution that consents to produce records or that is required to produce records
            

    
in compliance with a subpoena or other order of a court of competent jurisdiction or in compliance
            

    
with an order obtained pursuant to Sections 

78-27-45

 through [

78-27-50

] 

78-27-50.5

 shall be
            

    
reimbursed for the cost of retrieval and reproduction of the records by the party seeking the
            

    
information.  The commissioner may by rule establish the rates and conditions under which
            

    
reimbursement is made.
            

    
    (7) (a)  The commissioner may classify all records kept by institutions subject to the
            

    
jurisdiction of the department and to prescribe the period for which each class of records is retained. 
            

    
Rules adopted under this Subsection (7) for any class of financial institution shall be consistent with
            

    
federal laws and regulations applicable to the class.
            

    
    (b)  Rules made under Subsection (7)(a) shall provide that:
            

    
    (i)  An institution may dispose of any record after retaining it for the period prescribed by the
            

    
commissioner for retention of records of its class.  If an institution disposes of a record after the
            

    
prescribed period, the institution has no duty to produce it in any action or proceeding and is not
            

    
liable to any person by reason of that disposition.
            

    
    (ii)  Any institution may keep records in its custody in the form of microfilm or equivalent
            

    
reproduction.  Any such reproduction shall have the same force and effect as the original and shall
            

    
be admissible into evidence as if it were the original.
            

    
    (c)  In adopting rules under this Subsection (7), the commissioner shall take into

- 3 -

            

    
consideration:
            

    
    (i)  actions at law and administrative proceedings in which the production of the records
            

    
might be necessary or desirable;
            

    
    (ii)  state and federal statutes of limitation applicable to the actions or proceedings;
            

    
    (iii)  the availability from other sources of information contained in these records; and
            

    
    (iv)  other matters the commissioner considers pertinent in formulating rules that require
            

    
institutions to retain their records for as short a period as commensurate with the interest in having
            

    
the records available of:
            

    
    (A)  customers, members, depositors, and shareholders of the institutions; and
            

    
    (B)  the people of this state.
            

    
    (8) (a)  The commissioner may establish reasonable classes of depository and other financial
            

    
institutions including separate classes for savings and loan associations and related institutions,
            

    
banks and related institutions, credit unions, and industrial loan corporations.
            

    
    (b)  If the restrictions or requirements the commissioner imposes are not more stringent than
            

    
those applicable under federal law or regulation to federally chartered institutions of the same class,
            

    
the commissioner may establish the following for each class in a manner consistent with this title:
            

    
    (i)  eligible classes and types of investments for the deposits and other funds of those
            

    
financial institutions;
            

    
    (ii)  minimum standards, in amounts sufficient to protect depositors and other creditors, for
            

    
the amount and types of capital required to engage in the business conducted by each class or to
            

    
obtain a license or to establish a branch or additional office of an institution of each class;
            

    
    (iii)  eligible obligations, reserves, and other accounts to be included in the computation of
            

    
capital;
            

    
    (iv)  minimum liquidity requirements for financial institutions within each class in amounts
            

    
sufficient to meet the demands of depositors and other creditors for liquid funds;
            

    
    (v)  limitations on the amount and type of borrowings by each class of financial institution
            

    
in relation to the amount of its capital and the character and condition of its assets and its deposits
            

    
and other liabilities;

- 4 -

            

    
    (vi)  limitations on the amount and nature of loans and extensions of credit to any person or
            

    
related persons by each class of financial institution in relation to the amount of its capital; and
            

    
    (vii)  limitations on the amount and nature of loans and extensions of credit by a financial
            

    
institution or other person within each class to an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder
            

    
of:
            

    
    (A)  the institution or other person;
            

    
    (B)  any company of which the institution or other person is a subsidiary;
            

    
    (C)  any subsidiary of the institution or other person;
            

    
    (D)  any affiliate of the institution; and
            

    
    (E)  a company controlled by an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of the
            

    
institution.
            

    
    (9)  The commissioner may define unfair trade practices of financial institutions and other
            

    
persons subject to the jurisdiction of the department and to prohibit or restrict these practices.
            

    
    (10)  The commissioner may establish reasonable standards to promote the fair and truthful
            

    
advertising of:
            

    
    (a)  services offered by a financial institution;
            

    
    (b)  the charges for the services advertised under Subsection (10)(a);
            

    
    (c)  the interest or other compensation to be paid on deposits or any debt instrument offered
            

    
for sale by the institution;
            

    
    (d)  the nature and extent of any insurance on deposits, savings accounts, share accounts,
            

    
certificates of deposit, time deposit accounts, NOW accounts, share draft accounts, transaction
            

    
accounts, or any evidence of indebtedness issued, offered for sale, offered to sell or sold by any
            

    
financial institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the department; and
            

    
    (e)  the safety or financial soundness of any financial institution or other person subject to
            

    
the jurisdiction of the department.
            

    
    (11)  The commissioner may define what constitutes an impairment of capital for each class
            

    
of financial institution or other person subject to the jurisdiction of the department.
            

    
    (12)  The commissioner may designate days on which depository institutions are closed in

- 5 -

            

    
accordance with Section 

7-1-808

.
            

    
    (13)  The commissioner may regulate the issuance, advertising, offer for sale, and sale of a
            

    
security to the extent authorized by Section 

7-1-503

.
            

    
    (14)  The commissioner may require the officers of any institution or other person subject
            

    
to the commissioner's jurisdiction to open and keep a standard set of books, computer records, or
            

    
both for the purpose of keeping accurate and convenient records of the transactions and accounts of
            

    
the institution in a manner to enable the commissioner, supervisors, and department examiners to
            

    
readily ascertain the institution's true condition.  These requirements shall be consistent with
            

    
generally accepted accounting principles for financial institutions.
            

    
    (15)  In accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
            

    
commissioner may adopt and issue rules consistent with the purposes and provisions of this title, and
            

    
may revise, amend, or repeal the rules adopted.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
78-27-45

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-45.  Financial information privacy -- Written consent or court order for
            

    
 disclosure by financial institution -- Exception.  
            

    
    (1)  As used in Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50.5

:
            

    
    (a)  "Financial institution" means:
            

    
    (i)  a financial institution as defined in Section 

7-1-103

; or
            

    
    (ii)  a depository institution as defined in Section 

7-1-103

.
            

    
    (b)  "Governmental entity" means:
            

    
    (i)  the state, including all departments, institutions, boards, divisions, bureaus, offices,
            

    
commissions, committees, and elected officials; and
            

    
    (ii)  any political subdivision of the state, including any county, city, town, school district,
            

    
public transit district, redevelopment agency, special improvement, or taxing district.
            

    
    (c)  "Nonprotected record" means a record maintained by the financial institution to facilitate
            

    
the conduct of its business regarding a person or account, including:
            

    
    (i)  the existence of an account;
            

    
    (ii)  the opening and closing dates of an account;

- 6 -

            

    
    (iii)  the name under which an account is held; and
            

    
    (iv)  the name, address, and telephone number of an account holder.
            

    
    (d)  "Protected record" means a record not defined as a nonprotected record; and
            

    
    (e)  "Record" means information that is:
            

    
    (i)  prepared, owned, received, or retained by a financial institution;
            

    
    (ii) (A)  inscribed on a tangible medium; or
            

    
    (B)  stored in an electronic or other medium; and
            

    
    (iii)  retrievable in perceivable form.
            

    
    [(1)  A person] (2)  Except as provided in Section 

78-27-50

, an individual acting in behalf
            

    
of [the state, or any agency, office, department, bureau, or political subdivision of the state] a
            

    
governmental entity may not request [or], obtain by subpoena, or otherwise obtain information from
            

    
a state or federally chartered financial institution [regarding the financial transactions or other
            

    
records] that constitutes a record reflecting the financial condition of any person without first
            

    
obtaining:
            

    
    (a)  written permission from the person [whose financial transactions or other records of
            

    
financial condition are] that is named or referenced in the record to be examined[,]; or [obtaining]
            

    
    (b)  an order from a court of competent jurisdiction permitting access to the [information]
            

    
record.
            

    
    [(2)] (3)  This section does not apply to:
            

    
    (a)  [reviews] a review made by the commissioner of financial institutions to determine
            

    
whether a financial institution is operating in accordance with law; or
            

    
    (b)  [reports] a report filed as required by Section 

76-10-1906

.
            

    
    [(3)  As used in this section, "person" includes an individual, corporation, partnership, or
            

    
association.]
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
78-27-46

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-46.  Financial information privacy -- Notice to person about whom information
            

    
 sought.
            

    
    (1) [In the event] (a)  If a court order is obtained pursuant to Section 

78-27-45

, [notice thereof

- 7 -

            

    
shall be given to] the governmental entity that obtained the order shall notify the person about whom
            

    
information is sought that a court order has been obtained:
            

    
    (i)  within three days of the day on which service of the order is made upon the financial
            

    
institution[, but]; and
            

    
    (ii)  no later than seven days before the day fixed in the order as the day upon which the
            

    
records are to be produced or examined.
            

    
    (b)  The notice required by Subsection (1)(a) shall be accompanied by:
            

    
    (i)  a copy of the order [which] that has been served upon the financial institution [and];
            

    
    (ii)  a copy of the motion or application upon which [it] the order is based; and [shall be
            

    
accompanied by]
            

    
    (iii)  a statement setting forth the rights of the person under Section 

78-27-47

.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The notice shall be sufficient if, on or before the third day after issuance of the order,
            

    
notice is:
            

    
    (i)  served in the manner provided in Rule 4(e), Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, upon the
            

    
person entitled to notice[,]; or [is]
            

    
    (ii)  mailed by certified or registered mail to the last-known address of the person[. In the
            

    
event the] entitled to notice.
            

    
    (b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), if the person entitled to notice is deceased or under
            

    
legal disability, notice shall be served upon or mailed to the last-known address of [such] that
            

    
person's executor, administrator, guardian, or other fiduciary. 
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
78-27-47

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-47.  Financial information privacy -- Intervention to challenge or stay order --
            

    
 Burden on governmental entity.
            

    
    (1)  Notwithstanding any other law or rule of law, any person who is entitled to notice of a
            

    
court order under Section 

78-27-46

 shall have the right to intervene in any proceeding with respect
            

    
to enforcement of the order to:
            

    
    (a)  challenge the issuance of the order; or [to]
            

    
    (b)  stay compliance [therewith] with the order.

- 8 -

            

    
    (2)  Upon intervention, the burden shall be [upon] on the [state, agency, officer, department,
            

    
bureau or political subdivision] governmental entity obtaining the order to show that there is
            

    
reasonable cause for the issuance of the order [and that the information sought may further the
            

    
investigation].
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
78-27-48

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-48.  Financial information privacy -- Reimbursement of financial institution for
            

    
 costs of obtaining information.
            

    
      [Any] (1)  A financial institution [which produced records pursuant to permission or in
            

    
compliance with an order obtained under this act] shall be entitled to reimbursement by the [party
            

    
or parties] governmental entity seeking the information, for costs reasonably and directly incurred
            

    
in searching for, reproducing, or transporting books, papers, records, or other data required to be
            

    
produced if the financial institution produces the record:
            

    
    (a)  pursuant to permission by the person named or referenced in the record in accordance
            

    
with Section 

78-27-45;


            

    
    (b)  in compliance with an order obtained under Section 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50.5

; or
            

    
    (c)  in compliance with an order of a court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction.
            

    
    (2)  The commissioner of financial institutions shall by [regulation] rule establish the rates
            

    
and conditions under which reimbursement shall be made.
            

    
    Section 6.  
Section  
78-27-49

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-49.  Financial information privacy -- Admissibility of information restricted.  
            

    
    [No information] (1)  Information obtained directly or indirectly from a financial institution
            

    
in violation of [the provisions of this act shall] Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-47

 may not be
            

    
admissible in any court of this state against the person entitled to notice.
            

    
    (2)  This section does not apply in any action:
            

    
    (a)  between the financial institution and the person otherwise entitled to notice; or [in any
            

    
action]
            

    
    (b)  in which it is claimed that the financial institution has been the victim of fraud,
            

    
embezzlement or any other criminal act committed by the person otherwise entitled to notice.

- 9 -

            

    
    Section 7.  
Section  
78-27-50

 is amended to read:
            

    
     78-27-50.  Financial information privacy -- Inapplicable to certain official
            

    
 investigations.
            

    
    (1)  [This chapter shall] Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-47

 do not apply [where] when an
            

    
examination of records is a part of an official investigation by [any]:
            

    
    (a)  a local police[,];
            

    
    (b)  a sheriff[,];
            

    
    (c)  a peace officer[,];
            

    
    (d)  a city attorney[,];
            

    
    (e)  a county attorney[,];
            

    
    (f)  a district attorney[,];
            

    
    (g)  the attorney general[,];
            

    
    (h)  the Department of Public Safety[,];
            

    
    (i)  the Office of Recovery Services of the Department of Human Services[,];
            

    
    (j)  the Insurance Department[, or]; 
            

    
    (k)  the Department of Commerce; or
            

    
    (l)  the state auditor.
            

    
    [(2)  Any financial institution or its agent or employee making a disclosure of financial
            

    
records pursuant to any court order, subpoena, administrative subpoena, or other legal process, is not
            

    
liable to the customer for disclosure.]
            

    
    (2)  Except for the Office of Recovery Services, if a governmental entity listed in Subsection
            

    
(1) seeks a record, the entity shall obtain the record as follows:
            

    
    (a)  if the record is a nonprotected record, by request in writing that:
            

    
    (i)  certifies that an official investigation is being conducted; and
            

    
    (ii)  is signed by a representative of the governmental entity that is conducting the official
            

    
investigation; or
            

    
    (b)  if the record is a protected record, by obtaining:
            

    
    (i)  a subpoena authorized by statute; or

- 10 -

            

    
    (ii)  other legal process:
            

    
    (A)  ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
            

    
    (B)   served upon the financial institution.
            

    
    (3)  If the Office of Recovery Services seeks a record, it shall obtain the record pursuant to:
            

    
    (a)  Subsection 

62A-11-104

(8);
            

    
    (b)  Section 

62A-11-304.1

;
            

    
    (c)  Section 

62A-11-304.5

; or
            

    
    (d)  Title IV, Part D of the Social Security Act as codified in 42 U.S.C. 651 et seq.
            

    
    (4)  A financial institution may not give notice to any person named or referenced within the
            

    
record disclosed pursuant to Subsection (2)(a).
            

    
    (5) In accordance with Section 

78-27-48

, the agency conducting the official investigation that
            

    
obtains a record from a financial institution under this section shall reimburse the financial
            
     
institution
            

    
for costs reasonably and directly incurred by the financial institution.
            

    
    Section 8.  
Section  
78-27-50.5

 is enacted to read:
            

    
     78-27-50.5.  Liability of financial institutions.
            

    
    A financial institution is not liable to any person named or referenced within a record:
            

    
    (1)  for any disclosure that is the result of a subpoena, order, or request made pursuant to
            

    
Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50

 if the financial institution reasonably believes that the subpoena,
            

    
order, or request is properly made under Sections 

78-27-45

 through 

78-27-50

; or
            

    
    (2)  for any disclosure or action taken in good faith pursuant to a data match or administrative
            

    
subpoena provided for by the statutes listed in Subsection 

78-27-50

(3).

- 11 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







