Sponsors: []Modifications: or substantial reductionsubstantialSection 

53A-8-106

 andor continuebeyond thethen current school yearcareer or provisional employee of a schooldistrict, but does not include:(a);(b)  the district business administrator or the equivalent at an applied technology center orthe Schools for the Deaf and the Blind; or(c)If the class of employees in question is represented by an employeeorganization recognized by the local board, the board shall adopt its policies based upon anagreement with that organization.career employee'smayor continued beyond the then-current schoolyearmayor continuedbeyond the then-current school year, discontinuance, or nonrenewalIf the district intends to terminate a contract during its term or discontinue a careeremployee's contract beyond the then current school year for reasons of unsatisfactory performance,the unsatisfactory performance must be documented in at least two evaluations conducted at any timewithin the preceding three years in accordance with district policies or practices.(b)30 daysor continuebeyond the then-current school yeartheordiscontinuance(c)inaccordance with the district evaluation policies(d)ordiscontinueat the end of the then-current schoolyear30 days60 daysor discontinue; and(f)  the notice shall state that failure of the employee to request a hearing in accordance withprocedures set forth in the notice constitutes a waiver of that right and that the district may thenproceed with termination without further notice(8) (a)  Suspension pending a hearing may be without pay if an authorized representative  ofthe district determines, after providing the employee with an opportunity for an informal conferenceto discuss the allegations, that it is more likely than not that the allegations against the employee aretrue and will result in termination.(b)  If termination is not subsequently ordered, the employee shall receive back pay for theperiod of suspension without pay.(9)(a)by the board to conduct the hearings and make recommendationsconcerning findings(b)  The board shall establish procedures to appoint hearing officers.(c)  The board may delegate its authority to a hearing officer to make decisions relating tothe employment of an employee which are binding upon both the employee and the board.(d)  Subsection (1) does not limit the right of the board or the employee to appeal to anappropriate court of law.the employee(3)  Subpoenas may be issued and oaths administered as provided under Section 

53A-7-204

.    53A-8-106.(1)  A provisional employee must work for a school district on at least a half-time basis forthree consecutive years to obtain career employee status.(2)  Policies of an employing school district shall determine the status of a career employeein the event of the following:(a)  the employee accepts a position which is substantially different from the position inwhich career status was achieved; or(b)  the employee accepts employment in another school district.(3)  If an employee who is under an order of probation or remediation in one assignment ina school district is transferred or given a new assignment in the district, the order shall stand untilits provisions are satisfied.(4)  An employee who is given extra duty assignments in addition to a primary assignment,such as a teacher who also serves as a coach or activity advisor, is a temporary employee in thoseextra duty assignments and may not acquire career status beyond the primary assignment.or reductionThis act takes effect on July 1, 1999.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0146.ZIP 8,986 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 146 Enrolled






            

    
(In Subsection 53A-8-107(2) after "discontinuance" the language "or substantial reduction" was part of the bill as
            

    
it passed both houses of the Legislature.  However, in enrolling the word "substantial" was inadvertently omitted,
            

    
but is included in the published database.)


            

    

 UTAH ORDERLY SCHOOL TERMINATION

            

    
 PROCEDURES ACT AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO PUBLIC EDUCATION; MODIFYING DEFINITIONS IN THE
            

    
ORDERLY SCHOOL TERMINATION PROCEDURES ACT; MODIFYING DISMISSAL
            

    
PROCEDURES; PROVIDING FOR WAIVER OF HEARINGS; PROVIDING FOR
            

    
SUSPENSION WITHOUT PAY; PROVIDING FOR ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS AND AN
            

    
APPEAL PROCESS; CLARIFYING PROVISIONAL EMPLOYEE STATUS; AND PROVIDING
            

    
AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     53A-8-102, as last amended by Chapters 123 and 234, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
     53A-8-104, as last amended by Chapter 173, Laws of Utah 1998
            

    
     53A-8-105, as last amended by Chapter 51, Laws of Utah 1994
            

    
     53A-8-107, as last amended by Chapter 234, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
REPEALS AND REENACTS:
            

    
     53A-8-106, as last amended by Chapter 51, Laws of Utah 1994
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
53A-8-102

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-8-102.  Definitions.
            

    
    As used in this chapter:
            

    
    (1)  "Career employee" means an employee of a school district who has obtained a
            

    
reasonable expectation of continued employment based upon Section 

53A-8-106

 and an agreement
            

    
with the employee or the employee's association, district practice, or policy.
            

    
    (2)  "Contract term" or "term of employment" means the period of time during which an

            

    
employee is engaged by the school district under a contract of employment, whether oral or written.
            

    
    (3)  "Dismissal" or "termination" means:
            

    
    (a)  termination of the status of employment of an  employee;
            

    
    (b)  failure to renew or continue the employment contract of a career employee beyond the
            

    
then current school year;
            

    
    (c)  reduction in salary of an employee not generally applied to all employees of the same
            

    
category employed by the school district during the employee's contract term; or
            

    
    (d)  change of assignment of an employee with an accompanying reduction in pay, unless the
            

    
assignment change and salary reduction are agreed to in writing.
            

    
    (4)  "Employee" means a [person, other than] career or provisional employee of a school
            

    
district, but does not include:
            

    
    (a)  the district superintendent, or the equivalent at an applied technology center or the
            

    
Schools for the Deaf and the Blind[, or];
            

    
    (b)  the district business administrator or the equivalent at an applied technology center or
            

    
the Schools for the Deaf and the Blind; or
            

    
    (c)  a temporary employee[, who is a career or provisional employee of the district].
            

    
    (5)  "Provisional employee" means an individual, other than a career employee or a temporary
            

    
employee, who is employed by a school district.
            

    
    (6)  "School board" or "board" means a district school board or its equivalent at an applied
            

    
technology center or the Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.
            

    
    (7)  "School district" or "district" means:
            

    
    (a)  a public school district;
            

    
    (b)  an applied technology center; or
            

    
    (c)  the Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.
            

    
    (8)  "Temporary employee" means an individual who is employed on a temporary basis as
            

    
defined by policies adopted by the local board of education [based upon an agreement with the
            

    
employee or the employee association recognized by the board which represents the class of
            

    
employee in question].  If the class of employees in question is represented by an employee

- 2 -

            

    
organization recognized by the local board, the board shall adopt its policies based upon an
            

    
agreement with that organization.  Temporary employees serve at will and have no expectation of
            

    
continued employment.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
53A-8-104

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-8-104.  Dismissal procedures.
            

    
    (1)  The district shall provide employees with a written statement of causes under which a
            

    
career employee's contract [shall] may not be renewed or continued beyond the then-current school
            

    
year, under which a contract of each class of personnel [shall] may not be renewed or continued
            

    
beyond the then-current school year, and under which a contract can be otherwise terminated during
            

    
the contract term, and the orderly dismissal procedures which are used by the district in cases of
            

    
contract termination, discontinuance, or nonrenewal.
            

    
    (2) (a)  If the district intends to terminate a contract during its term or discontinue a career
            

    
employee's contract beyond the then current school year for reasons of unsatisfactory performance,
            

    
the unsatisfactory performance must be documented in at least two evaluations conducted at any time
            

    
within the preceding three years in accordance with district policies or practices.
            

    
    (b)  The district shall notify a career employee, at least [one month] 30 days prior to issuing
            

    
notice of intent not to renew or continue the employee's contract beyond the then-current school year,
            

    
that continued employment is in question and the reasons for the anticipated nonrenewal or
            

    
discontinuance.
            

    
    [(b)] (c)  The board shall give the career employee an opportunity to correct the problem in
            

    
accordance with the district evaluation policies.
            

    
    [(c)] (d)  The board may grant the career employee assistance to correct the deficiencies,
            

    
including informal conferences and the services of school personnel within the district.
            

    
    (3) (a)  If the career employee does not correct the problem as determined in accordance with
            

    
the evaluation and personnel policies of the district and the district intends to not renew or
            

    
discontinue the contract of employment of a career employee at the end of the then-current school
            

    
year, it shall give notice of that intention to the employee.
            

    
    (b)  The district shall issue the notice at least [two months] 30 days before the end of the

- 3 -

            

    
career employee's contract term.
            

    
    (4)  A district shall notify a provisional employee at least [two months] 60 days before the
            

    
end of the provisional employee's contract if the employee will not be offered a contract for a
            

    
subsequent term of employment.
            

    
    (5)  In the absence of a notice, an employee is considered employed for the next contract term
            

    
with a salary based upon the salary schedule applicable to the class of employee into which the
            

    
individual falls.
            

    
    (6)  If the district intends to not renew or discontinue the contract of a career employee or to
            

    
terminate a career or provisional employee's contract during the contract term:
            

    
    (a)  the district shall give written notice of the intent to the employee;
            

    
    (b) the notice shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail addressed to the
            

    
individual's last-known address as shown on the records of the district;
            

    
    (c) except as provided under Subsection (3)(b), the district shall give notice at least 15 days
            

    
prior to the proposed date of termination;
            

    
    (d) the notice shall state the date of termination and the detailed reasons for termination; and
            

    
    (e)  the notice shall advise the individual that he has a right to a fair hearing; and
            

    
    (f)  the notice shall state that failure of the employee to request a hearing in accordance with
            

    
procedures set forth in the notice constitutes a waiver of that right and that the district may then
            

    
proceed with termination without further notice.
            

    
    (7)  The procedure under which a contract is terminated during its term may include a
            

    
provision under which the active service of the employee is suspended pending a hearing if it appears
            

    
that the continued employment of the individual may be harmful to students or to the district.
            

    
    (8) (a)  Suspension pending a hearing may be without pay if an authorized representative  of
            

    
the district determines, after providing the employee with an opportunity for an informal conference
            

    
to discuss the allegations, that it is more likely than not that the allegations against the employee are
            

    
true and will result in termination.
            

    
    (b)  If termination is not subsequently ordered, the employee shall receive back pay for the
            

    
period of suspension without pay.

- 4 -

            

    
    [(8)] (9)  The procedure shall provide for a written notice of suspension or final termination
            

    
including findings of fact upon which the action is based if the suspension or termination is for
            

    
cause.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
53A-8-105

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-8-105.  Hearings before district board or hearing officers -- Rights of employee --
            

    
 Subpoenas -- Appeals.
            

    
    (1) (a)  Hearings are held under this chapter before the board or before hearing officers
            

    
selected [under Section 

53A-8-106

] by the board to conduct the hearings and make recommendations
            

    
concerning findings.
            

    
    (b)  The board shall establish procedures to appoint hearing officers.
            

    
    (c)  The board may delegate its authority to a hearing officer to make decisions relating to
            

    
the employment of an employee which are binding upon both the employee and the board.
            

    
    (d)  Subsection (1) does not limit the right of the board or the employee to appeal to an
            

    
appropriate court of law.
            

    
    (2)  At the hearings, an employee has the right to counsel, to produce witnesses, to hear
            

    
testimony against [him] the employee, to cross-examine witnesses, and to examine documentary
            

    
evidence.
            

    
    (3)  Subpoenas may be issued and oaths administered as provided under Section 

53A-7-204

.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
53A-8-106

 is repealed and reenacted to read:
            

    
     53A-8-106.  Career employee status for provisional employees.
            

    
    (1)  A provisional employee must work for a school district on at least a half-time basis for
            

    
three consecutive years to obtain career employee status.
            

    
    (2)  Policies of an employing school district shall determine the status of a career employee
            

    
in the event of the following:
            

    
    (a)  the employee accepts a position which is substantially different from the position in
            

    
which career status was achieved; or
            

    
    (b)  the employee accepts employment in another school district.
            

    
    (3)  If an employee who is under an order of probation or remediation in one assignment in

- 5 -

            

    
a school district is transferred or given a new assignment in the district, the order shall stand until
            

    
its provisions are satisfied.
            

    
    (4)  An employee who is given extra duty assignments in addition to a primary assignment,
            

    
such as a teacher who also serves as a coach or activity advisor, is a temporary employee in those
            

    
extra duty assignments and may not acquire career status beyond the primary assignment.
            

    
    Section 5.  
Section  
53A-8-107

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-8-107.  Necessary staff reduction not precluded.
            

    
    Nothing in this chapter prevents staff reduction if necessary to reduce the number of
            

    
employees because of the following:
            

    
    (1)  declining student enrollments in the district;
            

    
    (2)  the discontinuance or reduction of a particular service or program;
            

    
    (3)  the shortage of anticipated revenue after the budget has been adopted; or
            

    
    (4)  school consolidation.
            

    
    Section 6.   Effective date.
            

    
    This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.

- 6 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







