Sponsors: []Modifications:     53A-1a-102 (Repealed 06/30/02).(1)  The State Board of Education and State Board of Regents shall:(a)  have ongoing strategic planning for their respective education systems; and(b)  prepare a written strategic plan for their respective systems every three years.(2) (a)  The State Board of Regents shall complete its first written plan by September 1,1999, and complete subsequent plans by September 1 in each third year.(b)  The State Board of Education shall complete its first written plan by September 1,2000, and complete subsequent plans by September 1 in each third year.(3) (a)  The boards shall submit a copy of each written plan in the appropriate year to theStrategic Planning for Public and Higher Education Committee and the Utah Tomorrow StrategicPlanning Committee.(b)  The Strategic Planning for Public and Higher Education Committee shall submit a copyof each plan to the Legislature as part of its annual report required under Section 

53A-1a-202

.(4)  Each strategic plan shall include at least the following components:(a)  the respective education system's mission;(b)  system goals that address issues critical for accomplishing the mission;(c)  the objectives to be accomplished during the years following submission of the strategicplan;(d)  action plans specifying the means of accomplishing the goals and objectives, includingproposed statutes, policies, programs, and initiatives; and(e)  performance measures required to report on the accomplishment of goals and objectivesand the implementation and outcomes of action plans.Committeecommitteeof the Senateof the House of Representativescommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommitteecommittee(a)  receive the required written strategic plans of the Board of Education and Board ofRegents every three years and any proposed changes to the mission, goals, objectives, and actionplans on an annual basis prior to September 1 of each year;(b)  conduct an in depth analysis of the goals, objectives, and action plans and the relevanceof the plans to the needs of the state and its citizens;(c)  monitor and evaluate the ongoing progress of both education systems in implementingtheir respective plans and achieving intended outcomes, and may request reports or data from bothboards and the Joint Liaison Committee, as needed, to accomplish its monitoring, evaluation,recommendation, and reporting responsibilities;(d)  identify issues of critical concern to the Legislature and other stakeholders of public andhigher education not addressed in each system's strategic plan; and(e)  work with other public and private entities engaged in strategic planning to coordinatetheir efforts with those of the committee.(2)committeethrough the ExecutiveAppropriations Committee and the Education Interim Committee of its activities, to include anevaluation of the adequacy of each system's strategic plan, the progress in its implementation, andits outcomes.(3)  The committee may recommend to the Legislature:(a)  any strategic issues it considers appropriate for public and higher education to considerin their ongoing strategic planning process; and(b)  any statute, policy, intent statement, program, or funding that it determines to beappropriate for the Legislature to consider in implementing each system's strategic plan.(4)  The committee shall meet on a quarterly basis to carry out its assigned duties andresponsibilities.committeecommitteeLegislative Research and GeneralCounselcommitteeOffice of Legislative Research and General CounselcommitteeThere is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 1999-2000, $9,600 to the Officeof Legislative Research and General Counsel to pay for staffing the committee.This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 8.0 SB0114.ZIP 8,886 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 114 Enrolled





            

    
STRATEGIC PLANNING FOR EDUCATIONAL

            

    
 EXCELLENCE AMENDMENTS



            

    
1999 GENERAL SESSION

            

    
STATE OF UTAH

            

    
 Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard

            

    
AN ACT RELATING TO EDUCATION; PROVIDING A STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS
            

    
FOR PUBLIC AND HIGHER EDUCATION; MODIFYING THE DUTIES AND POWERS OF
            

    
THE STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO ITS INVOLVEMENT WITH
            

    
PUBLIC AND HIGHER EDUCATION STRATEGIC PLANNING; PROVIDING THAT IT
            

    
MEET ON A QUARTERLY BASIS; MAKING STAFFING CHANGES; MAKING CERTAIN
            

    
TECHNICAL CHANGES; APPROPRIATING $9,600 FROM THE GENERAL FUND; AND
            

    
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
            

    
This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:
            

    
AMENDS:
            

    
     53A-1a-201, as last amended by Chapter 53, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
     53A-1a-202, as last amended by Chapter 53, Laws of Utah 1995
            

    
     53A-1a-203, as enacted by Chapter 46, Laws of Utah 1992
            

    
REPEALS AND REENACTS:
            

    
     53A-1a-102 (Repealed 06/30/02), as last amended by Chapter 61, Laws of Utah 1996
            

    
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:
            

    
    Section 1.  
Section  
53A-1a-102 (Repealed 06/30/02)

 is repealed and reenacted to read:
            

    
     53A-1a-102 (Repealed 06/30/02).  Education Strategic Plans -- Content -- Involvement
            

    
 of Strategic Planning Committee for Public and Higher Education.
            

    
    (1)  The State Board of Education and State Board of Regents shall:
            

    
    (a)  have ongoing strategic planning for their respective education systems; and
            

    
    (b)  prepare a written strategic plan for their respective systems every three years.
            

    
    (2) (a)  The State Board of Regents shall complete its first written plan by September 1,
            

    
1999, and complete subsequent plans by September 1 in each third year.
            

    
    (b)  The State Board of Education shall complete its first written plan by September 1,

            

    
2000, and complete subsequent plans by September 1 in each third year.
            

    
    (3) (a)  The boards shall submit a copy of each written plan in the appropriate year to the
            

    
Strategic Planning for Public and Higher Education Committee and the Utah Tomorrow Strategic
            

    
Planning Committee.
            

    
    (b)  The Strategic Planning for Public and Higher Education Committee shall submit a copy
            

    
of each plan to the Legislature as part of its annual report required under Section 

53A-1a-202

.
            

    
    (4)  Each strategic plan shall include at least the following components:
            

    
    (a)  the respective education system's mission;
            

    
    (b)  system goals that address issues critical for accomplishing the mission;
            

    
    (c)  the objectives to be accomplished during the years following submission of the strategic
            

    
plan;
            

    
    (d)  action plans specifying the means of accomplishing the goals and objectives, including
            

    
proposed statutes, policies, programs, and initiatives; and
            

    
    (e)  performance measures required to report on the accomplishment of goals and objectives
            

    
and the implementation and outcomes of action plans.
            

    
    Section 2.  
Section  
53A-1a-201

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-1a-201.  Strategic Planning for Public and Higher Education Committee --
            

    
 Membership -- Quorum -- Termination date.
            

    
    (1)  There is created a [Task Force on] Strategic Planning for Public and Higher Education
            

    
Committee.
            

    
    (2)  The [task force] committee shall consist of the following members:
            

    
    (a)  three members [shall be state senators] of the Senate appointed by the president of the
            

    
Senate, no more than two of whom may be from the same political party;
            

    
    (b)  three members [shall be state representatives] of the House of Representatives appointed
            

    
by the speaker of the House of Representatives, no more than two of whom may be from the same
            

    
political party;
            

    
    (c)  [one member shall be the governor or] the governor's designee;
            

    
    (d)  one member shall be the state superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's

- 2 -

            

    
designee;
            

    
    (e)  one member shall be the commissioner of higher education or the commissioner's
            

    
designee; 
            

    
    (f)  one member shall be a member of the State Board of Education appointed by the
            

    
governor in consultation with the board;
            

    
    (g)  one member shall be a member of the State Board of Regents appointed by the governor
            

    
in consultation with the board; and
            

    
    (h)  14 members[, who shall be] appointed jointly by the governor, the state superintendent
            

    
of public instruction, and the commissioner of higher education.
            

    
    (3)  The 14 members appointed under Subsection (2)(h) shall be men and women who:
            

    
    (a)   are representative of the interests of public and higher education;
            

    
    (b)  are selected from nominees submitted by community-based organizations of
            

    
demonstrated effectiveness and other nominees, such as teachers and faculty, school administrators,
            

    
and local school or institutional board members; and
            

    
    (c)  reflect or represent:
            

    
    (i)  diverse racial, ethnic, limited English proficiency, Indian tribe, and national origin
            

    
backgrounds that are found in the state's student population;
            

    
    (ii)  low-income families;
            

    
    (iii)  persons with disabilities; and
            

    
    (iv)  business and labor.
            

    
    (4) (a)  The president of the Senate shall designate a Senate cochair for the [task force]
            

    
committee.
            

    
    (b)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate a House cochair for the [task
            

    
force] committee.
            

    
    (5)  If a member cannot continue to serve on the [task force] committee for any reason, a
            

    
replacement shall be chosen by the authority that made the original appointment.
            

    
    (6)  A majority of the [task force] committee is a quorum for the transaction of business.
            

    
    (7) (a)  The [task force] committee may create public education and higher education

- 3 -

            

    
subcommittees to focus on specific issues within their respective systems as well as on issues that
            

    
overlap both systems.
            

    
    (b)  The [task force] committee members who serve on a subcommittee may, by majority
            

    
vote, expand the membership of the subcommittee but not the membership of the [task force]
            

    
committee.
            

    
    (c)  Those invited to serve on a subcommittee who are not members of the [task force]
            

    
committee shall serve without compensation.
            

    
    (8)  The [task force] committee shall terminate on June 30, 2002, unless reauthorized by the
            

    
Legislature.
            

    
    Section 3.  
Section  
53A-1a-202

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-1a-202.  Committee duties and powers.
            

    
    (1)   The [task force] committee shall:
            

    
    [(a)   engage in strategic planning for the state's systems of public and higher education;]
            

    
    [(b)  monitor and evaluate the progress of public and higher education in achieving the
            

    
objectives outlined in this chapter and in the state's strategic plan for public and higher education;]
            

    
    [(c)  study and review funding mechanisms and available resources required to accomplish
            

    
the mission and objectives of the state's strategic plan for public and higher education; and]
            

    
    [(d)  work with the Utah Tomorrow Strategic Planning Committee to coordinate planning
            

    
efforts for public and higher education.]
            

    
    [(2)  The task force may recommend new mechanisms or programs or suggest modifications
            

    
in existing programs in order to provide additional revenues or resources to either or both education
            

    
systems.]
            

    
    (a)  receive the required written strategic plans of the Board of Education and Board of
            

    
Regents every three years and any proposed changes to the mission, goals, objectives, and action
            

    
plans on an annual basis prior to September 1 of each year;
            

    
    (b)  conduct an in depth analysis of the goals, objectives, and action plans and the relevance
            

    
of the plans to the needs of the state and its citizens;
            

    
    (c)  monitor and evaluate the ongoing progress of both education systems in implementing

- 4 -

            

    
their respective plans and achieving intended outcomes, and may request reports or data from both
            

    
boards and the Joint Liaison Committee, as needed, to accomplish its monitoring, evaluation,
            

    
recommendation, and reporting responsibilities;
            

    
    (d)  identify issues of critical concern to the Legislature and other stakeholders of public and
            

    
higher education not addressed in each system's strategic plan; and
            

    
    (e)  work with other public and private entities engaged in strategic planning to coordinate
            

    
their efforts with those of the committee.
            

    
    [(3) (a)] (2)  The [task force] committee shall make an annual report to the Legislature[, the
            

    
governor, the State Board of Education, and the State Board of Regents on its evaluation of strategic
            

    
planning in public and higher education and the programs authorized in this chapter. (b)  As part of
            

    
its report, the task force may make recommendations for any necessary changes or modifications in
            

    
this chapter and in the state's strategic plan for public and higher education.] through the Executive
            

    
Appropriations Committee and the Education Interim Committee of its activities, to include an
            

    
evaluation of the adequacy of each system's strategic plan, the progress in its implementation, and
            

    
its outcomes.
            

    
    (3)  The committee may recommend to the Legislature:
            

    
    (a)  any strategic issues it considers appropriate for public and higher education to consider
            

    
in their ongoing strategic planning process; and
            

    
    (b)  any statute, policy, intent statement, program, or funding that it determines to be
            

    
appropriate for the Legislature to consider in implementing each system's strategic plan.
            

    
    (4)  The committee shall meet on a quarterly basis to carry out its assigned duties and
            

    
responsibilities.
            

    
    Section 4.  
Section  
53A-1a-203

 is amended to read:
            

    
     53A-1a-203.  Compensation for members -- Staff.
            

    
    (1)  Nonlegislative [task force] committee members shall serve without compensation, but
            

    
they may be reimbursed for expenses and mileage as established by the Division of Finance.
            

    
    (2)  Legislative [task force] committee members shall be reimbursed as provided by
            

    
legislative rule.

- 5 -

            

    
    (3) (a)  The Office of [the Legislative Fiscal Analyst] Legislative Research and General
            

    
Counsel shall provide staff and support services to the [task force] committee.
            

    
    (b)  The [office] Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel may contract with other
            

    
persons to provide services to the [task force] committee.
            

    
    Section 5.   Appropriation.
            

    
    There is appropriated from the General Fund for fiscal year 1999-2000, $9,600 to the Office
            

    
of Legislative Research and General Counsel to pay for staffing the committee.
            

    
    Section 6.   Effective date.
            

    
    This act takes effect on July 1, 1999.

- 6 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







