Sponsors: []Modifications: (1)(2)Division of Purchasing and General ServicesDivision of Purchasing and General Services thatusedDivision of Purchasingand General Services(1)of the Department ofAdministrative Services(2):(a);(b)(3)  The chief procurement officer is also the director of the Division of Purchasing andGeneral Services.Division of Purchasing and General ServicesDivision of Purchasing and General Servicesand General ServicesPurchasing and(1)Purchasing and(2)  The director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services is also the state's chiefprocurement officer.Purchasing andand(ii)AllAn(3)Purchasing andPurchasing and(a)(b)Purchasing andand General Services(1)(3)    63A-9-801 (Effective 07/01/97).63A-9-802Fleet Operations    63A-9-801 (Superseded 07/01/97).63A-9-802Fleet Operations    63A-9-802.    63A-9-803.    63A-9-804.63A-9-801    63A-9-805.    63A-9-806.    63A-9-807.    63A-9-808.    63A-9-809.If approved by two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, this act takes effect uponapproval by the governor, or the day following the constitutional time limit of Utah ConstitutionArticle VII, Section 8, without the governor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of vetooverride.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0249.ZIP 22,924 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 249 Enrolled









     REORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF


     ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: George Mantes


    AN ACT RELATING TO STATE AFFAIRS IN GENERAL; MERGING THE DIVISION OF

    PURCHASING AND THE DIVISION OF GENERAL SERVICES; DEFINING ITS

    STRUCTURE, POWERS, AND DUTIES; MOVING THE SURPLUS PROPERTY

    PROGRAM TO THE DIVISION OF FLEET OPERATIONS; MAKING TECHNICAL

    CORRECTIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         63-56-4, as last amended by Chapter 259, Laws of Utah 1991

         63-56-5, as last amended by Chapter 260, Laws of Utah 1996

         63-56-8, as last amended by Chapter 136, Laws of Utah 1985

         63-56-9, as last amended by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1993

         63-56-11, as last amended by Chapter 232, Laws of Utah 1993

         63-56-47, as last amended by Chapter 295, Laws of Utah 1983

         63A-2-101, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118 and 212, Laws of Utah 1993

         63A-2-102, as last amended by Chapter 12, Laws of Utah 1994

         63A-2-103, as last amended by Chapters 334 and 336, Laws of Utah 1996

         63A-2-104, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118 and 212, Laws of Utah 1993

         63A-2-105, as renumbered and amended by Chapter 12, Laws of Utah 1994

         63A-9-301, as enacted by Chapter 334, Laws of Utah 1996

    RENUMBERS AND AMENDS:

         63A-9-801 (Effective 07/01/97), (Renumbered from 63A-2-301 (Effective 07/01/97), as

    last amended by Chapter 240, Laws of Utah 1996)

         63A-9-801 (Superseded 07/01/97), (Renumbered from 63A-2-301 (Superseded

    07/01/97), as last amended by Chapter 127, Laws of Utah 1995)


         63A-9-802, (Renumbered from 63A-2-301.5, as enacted by Chapter 101, Laws of Utah

    1994)

         63A-9-803, (Renumbered from 63A-2-302, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-804, (Renumbered from 63A-2-303, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-805, (Renumbered from 63A-2-304, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-806, (Renumbered from 63A-2-305, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-807, (Renumbered from 63A-2-306, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-808, (Renumbered from 63A-2-307, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

         63A-9-809, (Renumbered from 63A-2-308, as renumbered and amended by Chapters 118

    and 138, Laws of Utah 1993)

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  63-56-4 is amended to read:

         63-56-4.  Records.

        (1)  All procurement records shall be retained and disposed of in accordance with  Title 63,

    Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act.

        (2)  Written determinations required by this chapter shall also be retained in the appropriate

    official contract file of the [purchasing division] Division of Purchasing and General Services or the

    purchasing agency. 

        Section 2.  Section  63-56-5 is amended to read:

         63-56-5.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Architect-engineer services" are those professional services within the scope of the

- 2 -


    practice of architecture as defined in Section 58-3a-102, or professional engineering as defined in

    Section 58-22-102.

        (2)  "Business" means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint

    stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

        (3)  "Change order" means a written order signed by the procurement officer, directing the

    contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of the contract authorize

    the procurement officer to order without the consent of the contractor or any written alteration in

    specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other

    provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.

        (4) (a)  "Construction" means the process of building, renovation, alteration, improvement,

    or repair of any public building or public work.

        (b)  "Construction" does not mean the routine operation, routine repair, or routine

    maintenance of existing structures, buildings, or real property.

        (5)  "Contract" means any state agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,

    services, or construction.

        (6)  "Cooperative purchasing" means procurement conducted by, or on behalf of, more than

    one public procurement unit, or by a public procurement unit with an external procurement unit.

        (7)  "Cost-reimbursement contract" means a contract under which a contractor is reimbursed

    for costs which are allowed and allocated in accordance with the contract terms and the provisions

    of this chapter, and a fee, if any.

        (8)  "Established catalogue price" means the price included in a catalogue, price list,

    schedule, or other form that:

        (a)  is regularly maintained by a manufacturer or contractor;

        (b)  is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers; and

        (c)  states prices at which sales are currently or were last made to a significant number of any

    category of buyers or buyers constituting the general buying public for the supplies or services

    involved.

        (9)  "External procurement unit" means any buying organization not located in this state

- 3 -


    which, if located in this state, would qualify as a public procurement unit.  An agency of the United

    States is an external procurement unit.

        (10)  "Grant" means the furnishing by the state or by any other public or private source

    assistance, whether financial or otherwise, to any person to support a program authorized by law. 

    It does not include an award whose primary purpose is to procure an end product, whether in the

    form of supplies, services, or construction.  A contract resulting from the award is not a grant but

    a procurement contract.

        (11)  "Invitation for bids" means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by

    reference, utilized for soliciting bids.

        (12)  "Local public procurement unit" means any political subdivision or institution of higher

    education of the state or public agency of any subdivision, public authority, educational, health, or

    other institution, and to the extent provided by law, any other entity which expends public funds for

    the procurement of supplies, services, and construction, but not counties, municipalities, political

    subdivisions created by counties or municipalities under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Utah

    Housing Finance Agency, the Utah Technology Finance Corporation, or the Legislature and its staff

    offices.  It includes two or more local public procurement units acting under legislation which

    authorizes intergovernmental cooperation.

        (13)  "Person" means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization,

    or group of individuals, not including a state agency or a local public procurement unit.

        (14)  "Policy board" means the procurement policy board created by Section 63-56-6.

        (15)  "Preferred bidder" means a bidder that is entitled to receive a reciprocal preference

    under the requirements of this chapter.

        (16)  "Procurement" means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to

    purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.  It also includes all functions

    that pertain to the obtaining of any supply, service, or construction, including description of

    requirements, selection, and solicitation of sources, preparation, and award of a contract, and all

    phases of contract administration.

        (17)  "Procurement officer" means any person or board duly authorized to enter into and

- 4 -


    administer contracts and make written determinations with respect thereto.  It also includes an

    authorized representative acting within the limits of authority.

        (18)  "Public procurement unit" means either a local public procurement unit or a state public

    procurement unit.

        (19)  "Purchase description" means the words used in a solicitation to describe the supplies,

    services, or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications attached to or made a part of

    the solicitation.

        (20)  "Purchasing agency" means any state agency other than the [purchasing division which]

    Division of Purchasing and General Services that is authorized by this chapter or its implementing

    regulations, or by [way of] delegation from the chief procurement officer, to enter into contracts.

        (21)  "Request for proposals" means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by

    reference, [utilized] used for soliciting proposals.

        (22)  "Responsible bidder or offeror" means a person who has the capability in all respects

    to perform fully the contract requirements and who has the integrity and reliability which will assure

    good faith performance.

        (23)  "Responsive bidder" means a person who has submitted a bid which conforms in all

    material respects to the invitation for bids.

        (24)  "Services" means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not involving

    the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are merely incidental to the required

    performance.  It does not include employment agreements or collective bargaining agreements.

        (25)  "Specification" means any description of the physical or functional characteristics, or

    of the nature of a supply, service, or construction item.  It may include a description of any

    requirement for inspecting, testing, or preparing a supply, service, or construction item for delivery.

        (26)  "State agency" means any department, division, commission, council, board, bureau,

    committee, institution, government corporation, or other establishment or official of this state.

        (27)  "State public procurement unit" means the [purchasing division] Division of Purchasing

    and General Services and any other purchasing agency of this state.

        (28)  "Supplies" means all property, including equipment, materials, and printing.

- 5 -


        (29)  "Using agency" means any state agency which utilizes any supplies, services, or

    construction procured under this chapter.

        Section 3.  Section  63-56-8 is amended to read:

         63-56-8.  Chief procurement officer -- Appointment -- Qualifications.

        [A Purchasing Division, headed by the chief procurement officer, is created in the

    Department of Administrative Services.] (1)  The executive director of the Department of

    Administrative Services, with the consent of the governor, shall appoint the chief procurement

    officer after considering recommendations from the policy board.

        (2)  The chief procurement officer shall:

        (a)  have a minimum of eight years' experience in the large-scale procurement of supplies and

    services or services and construction, at least five years of which shall have been in public or

    comparable private procurement within 12 years preceding the date of appointment[,]; and [shall]

        (b)  be a person with demonstrated executive and organizational ability.

        (3)  The chief procurement officer is also the director of the Division of Purchasing and

    General Services.

        Section 4.  Section  63-56-9 is amended to read:

         63-56-9.  Duties of chief procurement officer.

        Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the chief procurement officer serves

    as the central procurement officer of the state and shall:

        (1)  adopt office policies governing the internal functions of the [purchasing division]

    Division of Purchasing and General Services;

        (2)  procure or supervise the procurement of all supplies, services, and construction needed

    by the state;

        (3)  exercise general supervision and control over all inventories or supplies belonging to the

    state;

        (4)  establish and maintain programs for the inspection, testing, and acceptance of supplies,

    services, and construction;

        (5)  prepare statistical data concerning the procurement and usage of all supplies, services,

- 6 -


    and construction;

        (6)  before June 1, 1990, notify all public procurement units of the requirements of Section

    63-56-20.7 regarding purchases of recycled paper and recycled paper products, recycling

    requirements, and provide guidelines on the availability of recycled paper and paper products,

    including the sources of supply and the potential uses of various grades of recycled paper; and

        (7)  before July 1, 1992:

        (a)  establish standards and specifications for determining which supplies are considered

    recycled, based upon his review of current definitions and standards employed by national

    procurement, product recycling, and other relevant organizations and the federal Environmental

    Protection Agency;

        (b)  compile and update as necessary the specifications, a list of recycled supplies available

    on state contract, and sources where the supplies may be obtained;

        (c)  make the compiled information under Subsection (b) available to:

        (i)  all local government entities under Section 11-37-101;

        (ii)  all local health departments under Section 26A-1-108.7;

        (iii)  all procurement officers or other persons responsible for purchasing supplies within the

    public school system under Title 53A, State System of Public Education;

        (iv)  all procurement officers or other persons responsible for purchasing supplies within the

    state system of higher education under Title 53B, State System of Higher Education; and

        (v)  all procurement officers or other persons responsible for purchasing supplies for all

    public procurement units as defined in Section 63-56-5; and

        (d)  present a written report to the Health and Environment Interim Committee annually prior

    to November 30 regarding the purchases of recycled goods on state contracts during the prior fiscal

    year. 

        Section 5.  Section  63-56-11 is amended to read:

         63-56-11.  Transfer of power to policy board.

        Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all rights, powers, duties, and authority relating

    to the procurement of supplies, services, and construction, and the management, control,

- 7 -


    warehousing, and sale of supplies, services, and construction vested in or exercised by any state

    agency on the effective date are transferred to the policy board as they relate to its duties and to the

    [purchasing division] Division of Purchasing and General Services as they relate to its duties.

        Section 6.  Section  63-56-47 is amended to read:

         63-56-47.  Costs to or against protestor.

        (1) When a protest is sustained administratively or upon administrative or judicial review and

    the protesting bidder or offeror should have been awarded the contract under the solicitation but is

    not, the protestor, in addition to any other relief, shall be entitled, as a claim against the state, to the

    reasonable costs incurred in connection with the solicitation, including bid preparation and appeal

    costs.

        (2)  When a protest is not sustained by the Procurement Appeals Board, the protestor shall

    reimburse the Division of Purchasing and General Services for the per diem and expenses paid by

    the division to witnesses or appeals board members and any additional expenses incurred by the state

    agency staff who have provided materials and administrative services to the board for that case. 

        Section 7.  Section  63A-2-101 is amended to read:

         63A-2-101.  Creation.

        There is created the Division of Purchasing and General Services within the Department of

    Administrative Services. 

        Section 8.  Section  63A-2-102 is amended to read:

         63A-2-102.  Director of division -- Appointment.

        (1)  The executive director of the department shall appoint the director of the Division of

    Purchasing and General Services with the approval of the governor.

        (2)  The director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services is also the state's chief

    procurement officer.

        Section 9.  Section  63A-2-103 is amended to read:

         63A-2-103.  General services provided -- Subscription by state departments and

     agencies and certain local governmental entities -- Fee schedule.

        (1) (a)  The director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services shall operate and

- 8 -


    maintain:

        (i)  a central mailing service; and

        [(ii)  a fuel dispensing services program that meets the requirements of Subsection (3);]

        [(iii)  a surplus property program that meets the requirements of this part and is qualified to

    receive federal surplus property under the provisions of Section 203(j) of the Federal Property and

    Administrative Services Act of 1949; and]

        [(iv)] (ii)  a central store for all state departments and agencies.

        (b)  The director may establish microfilming, duplicating, printing, addressograph, and other

    central services.

        (2) (a)  [Except as provided in Subsection (3)(a), all] All state departments and agencies shall

    subscribe to all of the services described in Subsection (1), unless the director delegates the director's

    authority to a department or agency under Section 63A-2-104.

        (b)  [Except as provided in Subsection (3)(a), an] An institution of higher education may

    subscribe to one or more of the services described in Subsection (1), if, and to the extent that, the

    president of the institution recommends and the State Board of Regents determines that the

    performance of the services by the director of the Division of General Services will result in

    substantial cost savings or increased efficiency to the institution.

        [(3) (a) (i)  Each state agency and each higher education institution shall subscribe to the fuel

    dispensing services provided by the division.]

        [(ii)  A state agency may not provide or subscribe to any other fuel dispensing services,

    systems, or products other than those provided by the division.]

        [(b)  Counties, municipalities, school districts, special districts, and federal agencies may

    subscribe to the fuel dispensing services provided by the division if:]

        [(i)  the county or municipal legislative body, or the school district, or the special district

    board recommends that the county, municipality, school district, or special district subscribe to the

    fuel dispensing services of the division; and]

        [(ii)  the division approves participation in the program by that government unit.]

        [(4)] (3) (a)  The director shall prescribe a schedule of fees to be charged for all services

- 9 -


    rendered by the division to any department or agency after receiving prior approval of the fee

    schedule from the director of the Division of Finance.

        (b)  When practicable, fees prescribed by the director of the Division of Purchasing and

    General Services shall be commensurate with the cost of providing the services.

        Section 10.  Section  63A-2-104 is amended to read:

         63A-2-104.  Delegation of general services to departments or agencies -- Writing

     required -- Contents -- Termination.

        (1) [(a)]  The director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services, with the approval

    of the executive director, may delegate, in writing, his authority to perform or control any general

    services function [except fuel dispensing and surplus property] to other state agencies and

    institutions by contract or other means authorized by law, if:

        [(i)] (a)  in the judgment of the executive director, the state department or agency has

    requested the authority; and

        [(ii)] (b)  the state department or agency has the necessary resources and skills to perform or

    control the functions.

        [(b)  The director may not delegate fuel dispensing and surplus property functions to another

    state agency or institution.]

        (2)  The director may delegate his authority only when the delegation would result in net cost

    savings or improved service delivery to the state as a whole.

        (3)  The written delegation shall contain the following:

        (a)  a precise definition of each function to be delegated;

        (b)  a clear description of the standards to be met in performing each function delegated;

        (c)  a provision for periodic administrative audits by the department; and

        (d)  a date on which the agreement shall terminate if not previously terminated or renewed.

        (4)  An agreement to delegate functions to a state agency or institution may be terminated

    by the department if the results of administrative audits conducted by the department reveal lack of

    compliance with the terms of the agreement. 

        Section 11.  Section  63A-2-105 is amended to read:

- 10 -


         63A-2-105.  Director to approve certain purchases.

        (1)  Each agency that intends to purchase any mail-related equipment or copy machine shall

    submit a purchase request to the director of the Division of General Services.

        (2)  The director shall review those requests to ensure that:

        (a)  the authority to perform those functions has been appropriately delegated to the agency

    under this part;

        (b)  the equipment meets proper specifications; and

        (c)  the benefits from the agency's purchase of the equipment outweigh the benefits of having

    the same functions performed by the Division of Purchasing and General Services. 

        Section 12.  Section  63A-9-301 is amended to read:

         63A-9-301.  Motor Vehicle Review Committee -- Composition.

        (1)  There is created a Motor Vehicle Review Committee to advise the division.

        (2)  The committee shall be composed of nine members as follows:

        (a)  the executive director of the Department of Administrative Services or his designee;

        (b)  the director of the Division of Finance or his designee;

        (c)  the director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services or his designee;

        (d)  the executive director of the Department of Transportation or his designee;

        (e)  the Commissioner of Public Safety or his designee;

        (f)  the Commissioner of Higher Education or his designee;

        (g)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources or his designee; and

        (h)  two public members from the automotive industry with expertise in fleet operations and

    maintenance appointed by the governor.

        (3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (1)(b), the governor shall appoint each public

    member to a four-year term.

        (b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time

    of appointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of public members are staggered

    so that approximately one half of the public members are appointed every two years.

        (c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be

- 11 -


    appointed for the unexpired term.

        (4) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no compensation or

    benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the

    member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections

    63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.

        (b) (i)  State government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or expenses from

    their agency for their service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their

    official duties from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections

    63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  State government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their

    service.

        (c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or expenses from the

    entity that they represent for their service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the

    performance of their official duties from the committee at the rates established by the Division of

    Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

        (ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their

    service.

        (5)  Five members of the committee are a quorum.

        (6)  The executive director of the Department of Administrative Services is chair of the

    committee.

        Section 13.  Section  63A-9-801 (Effective 07/01/97), which is renumbered from Section

    63A-2-301 (Effective 07/01/97) is renumbered and amended to read:

         [63A-2-301 (Effective 07/01/97)].      63A-9-801 (Effective 07/01/97).  State surplus

     property program -- Administration.

        (1)  As used in this section:

        (a)  "Agency" means:

        (i)  the Utah Departments of Administrative Services, Agriculture, Alcoholic Beverage

- 12 -


    Control, Commerce, Community and Economic Development, Corrections, Workforce Services,

    Health, Human Resource Management, Human Services, Insurance, Natural Resources, Public

    Safety, and Transportation;

        (ii)  the Utah Offices of the Auditor, Attorney General, Court Administrator, Crime Victim

    Reparations, Rehabilitation, and Treasurer;

        (iii)  the Public Service Commission and State Tax Commission;

        (iv)  the State Boards of Education, Pardons and Parole, and Regents;

        (v)  the Career Service Review Board and the Citizens' Council on Alcoholic Beverage

    Control; and

        (vi)  other state agencies designated by the governor;

        (vii)  the legislative branch, the judicial branch, and the State Board of Regents; and

        (viii)  an institution of higher education, its president, and its board of trustees for purposes

    of Section [63A-2-301.5] 63A-9-802.

        (b)  "Division" means the Division of [General Services] Fleet Operations.

        (c)  "Information technology equipment" means any equipment that is designed to

    electronically manipulate, store, or transfer any form of data.

        (d)  "Inventory property" means property in the possession of the division that is available

    for purchase by an agency or the public.

        (e)  "Judicial district" means the geographic districts established by Section 78-1-2.1.

        (f) (i)  "Surplus property" means property purchased by, seized by, or donated to, an agency

    that the agency wishes to dispose of.

        (ii)  "Surplus property" does not mean real property.

        (g)  "Transfer" means transfer of surplus property without cash consideration.

        (2) (a)  The division shall make rules establishing a state surplus property program that meets

    the requirements of this chapter by following the procedures and requirements of Title 63, Chapter

    46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

        (b)  Those rules shall include:

        (i)  a requirement prohibiting the transfer of surplus property from one agency to another

- 13 -


    agency without written approval from the division;

        (ii)  procedures and requirements governing division administration requirements that an

    agency must follow;

        (iii)  requirements governing purchase priorities;

        (iv)  requirements governing accounting, reimbursement, and payment procedures;

        (v)  procedures for collecting bad debts;

        (vi)  requirements and procedures for disposing of firearms;

        (vii)  the elements of the rates or other charges assessed by the division for services and

    handling;

        (viii)  procedures governing the timing and location of public sales of inventory property;

    and

        (ix)  procedures governing the transfer of information technology equipment by state

    agencies directly to public schools.

        (c)  The division shall report all transfers of information technology equipment by state

    agencies to public schools to the state's Information Technology Commission and to the Legislative

    Interim Education Committee at the end of each fiscal year.

        (3)  In creating and administering the program, the division shall:

        (a)  when conditions, inventory, and demand permit:

        (i)  establish facilities to store inventory property at geographically dispersed locations

    throughout the state; and

        (ii)  hold public sales of property at geographically dispersed locations throughout the state;

        (b)  establish, after consultation with the agency requesting the sale of surplus property, the

    price at which the surplus property shall be sold; and

        (c)  transfer proceeds arising from the sale of state surplus property to the agency requesting

    the sale in accordance with the Budgetary Procedures Act, less an amount established by the division

    by rule to pay the costs of administering the surplus property program.

        (4)  Unless specifically exempted from this chapter by explicit reference to this chapter, each

    state agency shall dispose of and acquire surplus property only by participating in the division's

- 14 -


    program.

        Section 14.  Section  63A-9-801 (Superseded 07/01/97), which is renumbered from Section

    63A-2-301 (Superseded 07/01/97) is renumbered and amended to read:

         [63A-2-301 (Superseded 07/01/97)].      63A-9-801 (Superseded 07/01/97).  State

     surplus property program -- Administration.

        (1)  As used in this section:

        (a)  "Agency" means:

        (i)  the Utah Departments of Administrative Services, Agriculture, Alcoholic Beverage

    Control, Commerce, Community and Economic Development, Corrections, Employment Security,

    Health, Human Resource Management, Human Services, Insurance, Natural Resources, Public

    Safety, and Transportation;

        (ii)  the Utah Offices of the Auditor, Attorney General, Court Administrator, Crime Victim

    Reparations, Rehabilitation, and Treasurer;

        (iii)  the Industrial Commission, Public Service Commission, and State Tax Commission;

        (iv)  the State Boards of Education, Pardons and Parole, and Regents;

        (v)  the Career Service Review Board and the Citizens' Council on Alcoholic Beverage

    Control; and

        (vi)  other state agencies designated by the governor;

        (vii)  the legislative branch, the judicial branch, and the board of regents; and

        (viii)  an institution of higher education, its president, and its board of trustees for purposes

    of Section [63A-2-301.5] 63A-9-802.

        (b)  "Division" means the Division of [General Services] Fleet Operations.

        (c)  "Information technology equipment" means any equipment that is designed to

    electronically manipulate, store, or transfer any form of data.

        (d)  "Inventory property" means property in the possession of the division that is available

    for purchase by an agency or the public.

        (e)  "Judicial district" means the geographic districts established by Section 78-1-2.1.

        (f) (i)  "Surplus property" means property purchased by, seized by, or donated to, an agency

- 15 -


    that the agency wishes to dispose of.

        (ii)  "Surplus property" does not mean real property.

        (g)  "Transfer" means transfer of surplus property without cash consideration.

        (2) (a)  The division shall make rules establishing a state surplus property program that meets

    the requirements of this chapter by following the procedures and requirements of Title 63, Chapter

    46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

        (b)  Those rules shall include:

        (i)  a requirement prohibiting the transfer of surplus property from one agency to another

    agency without written approval from the division;

        (ii)  procedures and requirements governing division administration requirements that an

    agency must follow;

        (iii)  requirements governing purchase priorities;

        (iv)  requirements governing accounting, reimbursement, and payment procedures;

        (v)  procedures for collecting bad debts;

        (vi)  requirements and procedures for disposing of firearms;

        (vii)  the elements of the rates or other charges assessed by the division for services and

    handling; 

        (viii)  procedures governing the timing and location of public sales of inventory property;

    and

        (ix)  procedures governing the transfer of information technology equipment by state

    agencies directly to public schools.

        (c)  The division shall report all transfers of information technology equipment by state

    agencies to public schools to the state's Information Technology Commission and to the Legislative

    Interim Education Committee at the end of each fiscal year.

        (3)  In creating and administering the program, the division shall:

        (a)  when conditions, inventory, and demand permit:

        (i)  establish facilities to store inventory property at geographically dispersed locations

    throughout the state; and

- 16 -


        (ii)  hold public sales of property at geographically dispersed locations throughout the state;

        (b)  establish, after consultation with the agency requesting the sale of surplus property, the

    price at which the surplus property shall be sold; and

        (c)  transfer proceeds arising from the sale of state surplus property to the agency requesting

    the sale in accordance with the Budgetary Procedures Act, less an amount established by the division

    by rule to pay the costs of administering the surplus property program.

        (4)  Unless specifically exempted from this chapter by explicit reference to this chapter, each

    state agency shall dispose of and acquire surplus property only by participating in the division's

    program.

        Section 15.  Section  63A-9-802, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-301.5 is

    renumbered and amended to read:

         [63A-2-301.5].      63A-9-802.  State surplus property program -- Participation by

     institutions of higher education.

        The Board of Regents shall:

        (1)  implement a policy requiring each institution of higher education to submit to the

    division a listing of surplus property available for sale outside the institution, at least 15 days prior

    to the intended sale date;

        (2)  supervise and assist compliance by the institutions of higher education with the

    requirement of this part; and

        (3)  encourage institutions of higher education to acquire federal surplus property from the

    division to reduce expenditures.

        Section 16.  Section  63A-9-803, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-302 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-302].      63A-9-803.  Methods of disposition of surplus authorized.

        The division may dispose of state surplus property by public auction, sealed bids, or by other

    means established by rule.

        Section 17.  Section  63A-9-804, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-303 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

- 17 -


         [63A-2-303].      63A-9-804.  Annual report to Legislature.

        The division shall prepare an annual report to the Legislature that includes:

        (1)  the costs of administering the surplus property program;

        (2)  the amount retained by each state agency requesting the sale of any surplus property;

        (3)  each direct transfer of property from one state agency to another that was approved by

    the division under Section [63A-2-301] 63A-9-801; and

        (4)  the estimated fair market value of each item of property transferred.

        Section 18.  Section  63A-9-805, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-304 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-304].      63A-9-805.  Acquisition of federal surplus property -- Powers and

     duties -- Advisory boards and committees -- Expenditures and contracts -- Clearinghouse of

     information -- Reports.

        (1)  As used in this section:

        (a)  "Property" includes equipment, materials, books, and other supplies.

        (b)  "Property act" means Section 203(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services

    Act of 1949.

        (2)  The division may:

        (a)  acquire from the United States of America under and in conformance with the property

    act any property under the control of any department or agency of the United States that is usable

    and necessary for any purposes authorized by federal law;

        (b)  warehouse that property if it is not real property; and

        (c)  distribute that property within Utah to:

        (i)  tax-supported medical institutions, hospitals, clinics, and health centers;

        (ii)  school systems, schools, colleges, and universities;

        (iii)  other nonprofit medical institutions, hospitals, clinics, health centers, schools, colleges,

    and universities that are exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal

    Revenue Code of 1954;

        (iv)  civil defense organizations;

- 18 -


        (v)  political subdivisions; and 

        (vi)  any other types of institutions or activities that are eligible to acquire the property under

    federal law.

        (3)  The division may:

        (a)  receive applications from eligible health and educational institutions for the acquisition

    of federal surplus real property;

        (b)  investigate the applications;

        (c)  obtain opinions about those applications from the appropriate health or educational

    authorities of Utah;

        (d)  make recommendations about the need of  the applicant for the property, the merits of

    the applicant's proposed use of the property, and the suitability of the property for those purposes;

    and

        (e)  otherwise assist in the processing of those applications for acquisition of real and related

    personal property of the United States under the property act.

        (4)  The division may appoint advisory boards or committees.

        (5)  If required by law or regulation of the United States in connection with the disposal of

    surplus real property and the receipt, warehousing, and distribution of surplus personal property

    received by the division from the United States, the division may:

        (a)  make certifications, take action, and make expenditures;

        (b)  enter into contracts, agreements, and undertakings for and in the name of the state

    including cooperative agreements with the federal agencies providing for use by and exchange

    between them of the property, facilities, personnel, and services of each by the other;

        (c)  require reports; and

        (d)  make investigations.

        (6)  The division  shall act as clearinghouse of information for public and private nonprofit

    institutions, organizations, and agencies eligible to acquire federal surplus real property to:

        (a)  locate both real and personal property available for acquisition from the United States;

        (b)  ascertain the terms and conditions under which that property may be obtained;

- 19 -


        (c)  receive requests from those institutions, organizations, and agencies and transmit to them

    all available information in reference to that property; and 

        (d)  aid and assist those institutions, organizations, and agencies in every way possible in

    those acquisitions or transactions.

        (7)  The division shall:

        (a)  cooperate with the departments or agencies of the United States;

        (b)  file a state plan of operation;

        (c)  operate according to that plan;

        (d)  take the actions necessary to meet the minimum standards prescribed by the property act;

        (e)  make any reports required by the United States or any of its departments or agencies; and

        (f)  comply with the laws of the United States and the regulations of any of the departments

    or agencies of the United States governing the allocation of, transfer of, use of, or accounting for any

    property donated to the state.

        Section 19.  Section  63A-9-806, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-305 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-305].      63A-9-806.  Bonds.

        The executive director of the Department of Administrative Services may bond any person

    employed by the division who handles money, signs checks, or receives or distributes surplus

    property. 

        Section 20.  Section  63A-9-807, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-306 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-306].      63A-9-807.  Charges and fees assessed for surplus property.

        (1)  The division may assess charges and fees for the acquisition, warehousing, distribution,

    or transfer of any property of the United States for educational, public health, or civil defense

    purposes, including research, only if those charges and fees are reasonably related to the division's

    care and handling costs of acquiring, receipting, warehousing, distributing, or transferring the

    property.

        (2)  The division may reduce or eliminate charges on property that is found not to be usable

- 20 -


    for the purpose for which it was procured.  

        (3)  The division shall limit the charges and fees assessed against real property to the

    reasonable administrative costs that the division incurred in effecting transfer.

        Section 21.  Section  63A-9-808, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-307 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-307].      63A-9-808.  Priority to state and local agencies in purchasing

     surplus property.

        The division shall make rules giving priority to state and local agencies in purchasing surplus

    property for a 30-day period.

        Section 22.  Section  63A-9-809, which is renumbered from Section 63A-2-308 is renumbered

    and amended to read:

         [63A-2-308].      63A-9-809.  Authority of state or local subdivision to receive

     property -- Revocation of authority of officer.

        (1)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the governing board or the executive

    director of any state department, instrumentality, or agency or the legislative body of any city,

    county, school district, or other political subdivision may by order or resolution give any officer or

    employee the authority to:

        (a)  secure the transfer to it of surplus property through the division under the provisions of

    Section 203(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended; and 

        (b)  obligate the state or political subdivision and its funds to the extent necessary to comply

    with the terms and conditions of  those transfers.

        (2)  The authority conferred upon any officer or employee by an order or resolution  remains

    in effect until:

        (a)  the order or resolution is revoked; and

        (b)  the division has received written notice of the revocation.

        Section 23.   Effective date.

        If approved by two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, this act takes effect upon

    approval by the governor, or the day following the constitutional time limit of Utah Constitution

- 21 -


    Article VII, Section 8, without the governor's signature, or in the case of a veto, the date of veto

    override.

- 22 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







