Sponsors: []Modifications: (3) (a)  In lieu of the individual official bonds required under this section and Section51-7-15, a county legislative body may acquire insurance or a general fidelity bond covering countyemployees, officials, and elected officers.(b)  The cost of the insurance or bond permitted under Subsection (3)(a) shall be paid by thecounty.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0221.ZIP 7,157 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 221 Enrolled









     COUNTY OFFICERS - OFFICIAL BOND




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard


    AN ACT RELATING TO COUNTIES; ALLOWING COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY TO

    ACQUIRE INSURANCE OR BOND IN LIEU OF INDIVIDUAL OFFICIALS BONDS;

    AND REQUIRING THE COUNTY TO PAY THE COST OF THE INSURANCE OR

    BOND.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         17-16-11, as last amended by Chapter 146, Laws of Utah 1994

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  17-16-11 is amended to read:

         17-16-11.  Official bonds.

        (1)  The county legislative body shall prescribe by ordinance the amount in which the

    following county and precinct officers shall execute official bonds before entering upon the

    discharge of the duties of their respective offices, viz.: county clerk, county auditor, sheriff, county

    attorney, district attorney, county recorder, county assessor, county surveyor, justice court judge,

    and constable, and the county legislative body may by ordinance require any deputy or assistant

    of any such officer to execute an official bond before entering upon the discharge of the duties of

    his office.  The amount in which the county treasurer shall execute an official bond shall be

    prescribed by the State Money Management Council.  If surety company bonds are taken, the

    premium for such of the bonds as the county  legislative body shall specify by ordinance shall be

    paid out of the county funds.  The judge or judges of the district court of the county shall prescribe

    the amount in which each member of the county legislative body of the county shall execute an

    official bond before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office.  If surety company

    bonds are taken and if the county legislative body shall so direct by ordinance, the premium for

    each such bond shall be paid out of the county funds.  The bonds and sureties of the county

    legislative body must, before the bonds can be recorded and filed, be approved by one of the


    judges.  The bonds and sureties of all other county and precinct officers must be approved by the

    county legislative body before the bonds can be filed and recorded.  All persons offered as sureties

    on official bonds shall be examined on oath touching their qualifications, and no person, other than

    a surety company, shall be admitted as surety on any bond unless he is a resident and freeholder

    within this state and is worth in real or personal property, or both, situate in this state the amount of

    his undertaking over and above all just debts and liabilities exclusive of property exempt from

    execution. All official bonds shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder and then filed and

    kept in the office of the county clerk.  The official bond of the county clerk after being recorded shall

    be filed and kept in the office of the county treasurer.

        (2)  The district attorney of a multicounty prosecution district shall execute a bond in the

    amount specified in the interlocal agreement creating the prosecution district.  The bond shall be

    recorded with the county recorder and filed with the county clerk specified in the agreement.  The

    agreement shall provide for payment of the premium in accordance with Subsection (1).

        (3) (a)  In lieu of the individual official bonds required under this section and Section

    51-7-15, a county legislative body may acquire insurance or a general fidelity bond covering county

    employees, officials, and elected officers.

        (b)  The cost of the insurance or bond permitted under Subsection (3)(a) shall be paid by the

    county.

- 2 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







