Sponsors: []Modifications: (b)(c)(d)(e)(f)Except for license plates issued under Section 41-1a-402, theExcept for license plates issued under Section 41-1a-402, the(b)(c)this partBefore July 1, 1997, and exceptBefore July 1, 1997, 20%SectionBefore July 1, 1997, theSectionExcept as provided in Subsection (3), each(3)  Beginning July 1, 1997, each original license plate that is not one of the special grouplicense plates issued under Section 41-1a-408 shall be a:(a)  statehood centennial license plate with the same color, design, and slogan as the platesissued in conjunction with the statehood centennial; or(b)  Ski Utah license plate.(2)(12)(7)(8)(3)and (3)andSubsection (5)(6)and(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)This act takes effect on July 1, 1997.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0204.ZIP 19,036 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 204 Enrolled








 
    CENTENNIAL LICENSE PLATE AMENDMENTS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  Joseph L. Hull


    AN ACT RELATING TO MOTOR VEHICLES; ALLOWING ORIGINAL LICENSE PLATES

    TO BE CENTENNIAL LICENSE PLATES; MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS;

    AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         9-1-501, as last amended by Chapter 160, Laws of Utah 1995

         9-1-502, as last amended by Chapters 227 and 278, Laws of Utah 1993

         9-1-504, as last amended by Chapter 7, Laws of Utah 1996

         9-1-505, as enacted by Chapter 160, Laws of Utah 1995

         41-1a-402, as renumbered and amended by Chapter 1, Laws of Utah 1992

         41-1a-408, as last amended by Chapters 119 and 173, Laws of Utah 1996

         41-1a-1201, as last amended by Chapter 173, Laws of Utah 1996

         41-1a-1211, as last amended by Chapters 119 and 173, Laws of Utah 1996

    REPEALS:

         9-1-503, as last amended by Chapter 124, Laws of Utah 1995

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  9-1-501 is amended to read:

         9-1-501.  Utah Statehood Centennial Commission -- Composition -- Powers.

        (1)  There is created a commission to be known as the Utah Statehood Centennial

    Commission.

        (2) (a)  The commission shall be composed of 25 bipartisan members appointed by the

    governor with the consent of the Senate.

        (b)  The governor shall appoint one of the commission members as chairman.

        (c)  The members of the commission shall represent the various geographical regions of

    the state and broadly represent the people of Utah.


        (3) (a)  A majority of the members of the commission constitute a quorum for the transaction

    of business.

        (b)  The governor may remove any member of the commission for failure to perform.

        (c)  The governor may appoint a replacement to the commission if a vacancy occurs on the

    commission for any reason.

        (4) (a)  The Department of Community and Economic Development shall provide

    administrative support to the commission.

        (b)  The executive director of the Department of Community and Economic Development,

    or his designee, shall serve as a non-voting member of the commission.

        (5)  The commission shall:

        (a)  work with all necessary state agencies to [develop, produce, and sell a centennial license

    plate to] fund the commission's activities;

        [(b)  develop plans to implement a statewide centennial celebration, to be held from January

    4, 1996 through January 24, 1997, and to conduct other centennial related activities before January

    4, 1996;]

        [(c)] (b)  raise money through [license plate sales and through other] fundraising activities;

        [(d)] (c)  establish committees to assist it in its work;

        [(e)] (d)  make grants to county centennial committees, communities, and other groups and

    individuals to carry out the purposes of this section;

        [(f)] (e)  make rules governing the expenditure of centennial funds by county centennial

    committees and other organizations by complying with the procedures and requirements of Title 63,

    Chapter 46a, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and

        [(g)] (f)  submit an annual report to the governor and to the Office of Legislative Research

    and General Counsel for submission to the Legislature by December 1 of each year.

        (6) (a)  The commission may hire staff to assist the commission in carrying out its duties, and

    the governor shall appoint an executive director.

        (b)  The executive director shall:

        (i)  be the executive secretary to the commission;

- 2 -


        (ii)  administer the day-to-day affairs of the commission; and

        (iii)  carry out other duties and assignments as directed by the commission.

        (c)  The executive director shall be a nonmerit position who serves at the pleasure of the

    governor.

        (d)  The executive director may appoint other staff members, provided that the commission

    has approved a budget for that purpose.

        (e)  The staff members appointed by the executive director may be nonmerit positions.

        (7) (a)  The commission shall deposit all funds raised by it in the expendable trust fund

    known as the Utah Statehood Centennial Trust, established in Section 9-1-504.

        (b)  The commission may spend the monies as authorized by this section.

        (c)  Any appropriations to the commission shall be nonlapsing until June 30, 1998.

        (8) (a)  The Utah Statehood Centennial Commission holds all rights to the use of the

    statehood centennial slogan, logo, and license plate design and other commission property protected

    by copyright or trademark.

        (b)  [The] Except for license plates issued under Section 41-1a-402, the commission may

    license or otherwise authorize the use of that slogan, logo, design, or other commission property

    protected by copyright or trademark for commercial or other purposes as long as the license plate

    design is not used in a manner inconsistent with Subsection 41-1a-1305(10).

        (c)  [The] Except for license plates issued under Section 41-1a-402, the commission may set

    a fee for the licensure or other authorized use of the slogan, logo, design, and other commission

    property protected by trademark or copyright.

        (9)  The Utah Statehood Centennial Commission may borrow money from the state to

    implement a statewide centennial celebration and to conduct other centennial related activities in

    amounts not exceeding in the aggregate, the amount to be deposited in the Utah Statehood

    Centennial Trust established under Section 9-1-504.

         (10)  The Utah Statehood Centennial Commission shall cease operations on or before June

    30, 1998.

        Section 2.  Section  9-1-502 is amended to read:

- 3 -


         9-1-502.  County centennial committee -- Composition -- Powers.

        (1) (a)  Each county executive with the approval of the county legislative body may form a

    county centennial committee composed of no less than five members.

        (b)  The county executive body shall:

        (i)  solicit applications for membership on the county centennial committee from county

    residents and residents of other political subdivisions located within the county;

        (ii)  appoint the members of the county centennial committee after consulting with mayors,

    city and town councils, commissions, community councils, and other community and county leaders;

    and

        (iii)  ensure that the members of the county centennial committee are nonpartisan, represent

    the various geographic and population regions of the county, and broadly represent the people of the

    county.

        (c)  Members of the county centennial committee shall serve until December 31, 1997, until

    they resign, or until they are removed for cause.

        (d)  After consultation with mayors, city and town councils, commissions, community

    councils, and other community and county leaders, the county executive body may remove any

    member of the county centennial committee for cause and may appoint a replacement.

        (2)  County centennial committees may:

        (a)  raise funds;

        [(b)  administer centennial license plate funds, if authorized to do so by the Utah Statehood

    Centennial Commission;]

        [(c)] (b)  apply for special project funds from the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission;

    and

        [(d)] (c)  spend funds for centennial related activities and events according to rules

    established by the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission.

        Section 3.  Section  9-1-504 is amended to read:

         9-1-504.  Utah Statehood Centennial Trust.

        (1)  There is established an expendable trust fund known as the Utah Statehood Centennial

- 4 -


    Trust.

        (2)  The purpose of the trust is to raise money for the celebration of the centennial of Utah's

    statehood in 1996 and related events and projects to be conducted or implemented under the

    direction of the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission in accordance with [Sections 9-1-501

    through 9-1-503] this part.

        (3)  The sources of funding for the trust are provided for under Subsections 9-1-501(5)

    through [9-1-501](7).

        (4)  Interest on investment funds in the trust shall accrue to the trust.

        (5)  The trust shall be controlled by the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission.

        (6)  On July 1, 1993, the director of the Division of Finance shall close out the centennial

    commission's nonlapsing dedicated credits and account monies to the trust.

        (7)  The trust created by this section shall terminate on June 30, 1998. On July 1, 1998, the

    director of the Division of Finance shall close out the trust to the Old Deseret Centennial Account

    within the General Fund, created by Section 9-1-504.5.

        Section 4.  Section  9-1-505 is amended to read:

         9-1-505.  Utah Statehood Centennial Commission borrowing authority -- Terms of

     repayment -- Funds dedicated to repayment.

        (1)  The disbursement authorized under Subsection 9-1-501(9) shall be repaid without

    interest by the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission in accordance with the following schedule:

        (a)  at least 50% of the outstanding balance shall be repaid no later than December 15, 1996;

    and

        (b)  the remainder of the disbursement shall be paid in full no later than June 30, 1997.

        (2) (a)  [Except] Before July 1, 1997, and except as provided in Subsection (5), the Utah

    Statehood Centennial Commission shall dedicate to repayment of the disbursement authorized under

    Subsection 9-1-501(9) 70% of the revenues received from special fees paid for purchase or renewal

    of centennial license plates [as provided in Subsection 9-1-503(1)] after the State Tax Commission

    deducts the actual production and administrative costs associated with making and issuing the

    centennial license plates [as provided in Subsection 9-1-503(2)(c)].

- 5 -


        (b)  [Twenty percent] Before July 1, 1997, 20% of the revenues received from the sale of

    centennial license plates as provided in [Subsection] Section 9-1-501[(5)(c)] shall be deposited into

    the expendable trust fund established in Section 9-1-504 for use by the Utah Statehood Centennial

    Commission [as provided in Subsection 9-1-503(3)(b)].

        (c)  [The] Before July 1, 1997, the remaining 10% of the revenues received from the sale of

    centennial license plates as provided in [Subsection] Section 9-1-501[(5)(c)] shall be deposited into

    the expendable trust fund established in Section 9-1-504 for use by the Utah Statehood Centennial

    Commission as provided in Subsection 9-1-501(7)(b).

        (3)  Notwithstanding Subsection 9-1-501(7)(b) and except as provided in Subsection (5), the

    Utah Statehood Centennial Commission shall dedicate to repayment of the disbursement authorized

    under Subsection 9-1-501(9) 80% of the revenues received from fees for the licensure or other

    authorized use of the slogan, logo, design, or other centennial commission property protected by

    trademark or copyright as provided in Subsection 9-1-501(8).

        (4)  Dedications to repayment under Subsections (2) and (3) shall begin no later than 90 days

    from the date any funds are disbursed by the Department of Community and Economic Development

    to the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission.

        (5)  Upon full repayment of the disbursement by the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission

    as provided in Subsections (2) and (3), the Utah Statehood Centennial Commission is not required

    to dedicate any further revenues to repayment.

        Section 5.  Section  41-1a-402 is amended to read:

         41-1a-402.  Required colors, numerals, and letters -- Expiration.

        (1)  [Each] Except as provided in Subsection (3), each license plate shall be in colors selected

    by the commission and shall have displayed on it:

        (a)  the registration number assigned to the vehicle for which it is issued;

        (b)  the name of the state;

        (c)  a designation of the county in which the  vehicle is registered as provided in Section

    41-1a-406;

        (d)  the date of expiration; and

- 6 -


        (e)  a slogan determined as provided in Section 41-1a-405.

        (2)  If registration is extended by affixing a validation decal to the license plate, the

    expiration date of the decal governs the expiration date of the license plate.

        (3)  Beginning July 1, 1997, each original license plate that is not one of the special group

    license plates issued under Section 41-1a-408 shall be a:

        (a)  statehood centennial license plate with the same color, design, and slogan as the plates

    issued in conjunction with the statehood centennial; or

        (b)  Ski Utah license plate.

        Section 6.  Section  41-1a-408 is amended to read:

         41-1a-408.  Special group plates -- Design -- Application -- Issuance.

        (1)  As used in this section:

        (a)  "Collegiate license plates" means the special group license plates issued under this

    section to a contributor to an institution after payment of the appropriate fees.

        (b) (i)  "Contributor" means a person who has donated or in whose name at least $25 has

    been donated to:

        (A)  a scholastic scholarship fund of a single institution;

        (B)  the Office of Veterans' Affairs in the Department of Community and Economic

    Development for veterans' programs; or

        (C)  the Division of Wildlife Resources for conservation of wildlife and the enhancement,

    preservation, protection, access, and management of wildlife habitat.

        (ii)  Except as provided under Subsection (13), the donation must be made in the 12 months

    prior to registration or renewal of registration.

        (c)  "Institution" means a state institution of higher education or a private institution of higher

    education in the state accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency recognized by the

    United States Department of Education.

        (d)  "State institution of higher education" has the same meaning as provided in Section

    53B-3-102.

        (e)  "Veterans' license plates" means the special group license plates issued under this section

- 7 -


    to a contributor to the Office of Veterans' Affairs after payment of the appropriate fees.

        (f)  "Wildlife license plates" means the special group license plates issued under this section

    to a contributor to the Division of Wildlife Resources after payment of the appropriate fees.

        (2) (a)  The design and maximum number of numerals or characters on special group license

    plates shall be determined by the division in accordance with the criteria in Subsection (2)(b).

        (b)  Except for [statehood centennial and] Olympic special group license plates, each special

    group license plate shall display:

        (i)  the word Utah;

        (ii)  the name or identifying slogan of the special group;

        (iii)  a symbol not exceeding two positions in size representing the special group; and

        (iv)  the combination of letters, numbers, or both uniquely identifying the registered vehicle.

        (3) (a)  The division shall, after consultation with a representative designated by the special

    group, specify the word or words comprising the special group name and the symbol to be displayed

    upon the special group license plates.

        (b)  Collegiate, veterans', and wildlife license plates may not be redesigned under this section

    more frequently than every five years.

        (c)  Veterans' license plates shall display one of the symbols representing the Army, Navy,

    Air Force, Marines, or Coast Guard.

        (4)  Subject to Subsections (10) and (12), the division shall only issue special group license

    plates to a person who is:

        (a)  a current member of the Legislature;

        (b)  a current member of the United States Congress;

        (c)  a survivor of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor;

        (d)  a former prisoner of war;

        (e)  a recipient of a Purple Heart, as provided in Section 41-1a-409;

        (f)  a current member of the National Guard;

        (g)  a person with a disability or the registered owner of a vehicle that an organization uses

    primarily for the transportation of persons with disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk;

- 8 -


        (h)  a contributor to an institution's scholastic scholarship fund;

        (i)  a contributor to the Division of Wildlife Resources;

        (j)  a contributor to the Office of Veterans' Affairs;

        (k)  licensing a special interest vehicle;

        (l)  licensing a vintage vehicle;

        (m)  a licensed amateur radio operator; 

        (n)  registering a farm truck; or

        (o)  a currently employed, volunteer, or retired firefighter.

        (5) (a)  A vehicle displaying a survivor of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor license plate

    decal, a former prisoner of war license plate decal, or a Purple Heart license plate decal shall be titled

    in the name of the veteran or the veteran and spouse.

        (b)  Upon the death of the veteran, the surviving spouse may, upon application to the

    division, retain the special group license plate decal so long as the surviving spouse remains

    unmarried.

        (c)  The division shall require the surviving spouse to make a sworn statement that the

    surviving spouse is unmarried before renewing the registration under this section.

        (6) (a) (i)  In accordance with rules made under Subsection (12), the division shall issue a

    person with a disability special group license plate, temporary removable windshield placard, or a

    removable windshield placard to:

        (A)  a qualifying person with a disability; or

        (B)  an organization that uses a vehicle registered in the applicant's name primarily for the

    transportation of persons with disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk.

        (ii)  The division shall issue a person with a disability special group license plate or a

    removable windshield placard to a person with a permanent disability.

        (iii)  The issuance of a person with a disability special group license plate does not preclude

    the issuance to the same applicant of a removable windshield placard.

        (iv)  The division shall issue on request one additional placard to a person with a person with

    a disability special group license plate, temporary removable windshield placard, or a removable

- 9 -


    windshield placard.

        (b)  The temporary removable windshield placard or removable windshield placard shall be

    hung from the front windshield rearview mirror when the vehicle is parked in a parking space

    reserved for persons with disabilities so that it is visible from the front and rear of the vehicle.

        (7) (a)  An applicant for original or renewal collegiate license plates must be a contributor

    to the institution named in the application and present the original contribution verification form to

    the division at the time of application.

        (b)  An institution with a special group license plate shall issue to a contributor a verification

    form designed by the commission containing:

        (i)  the name of the contributor;

        (ii)  the institution to which a donation was made;

        (iii)  the date of the donation; and

        (iv)  an attestation that the donation was for a scholastic scholarship.

        (c)  The state auditor may audit each institution to verify that the moneys collected by the

    institutions from contributors are used for scholastic scholarships.

        (d)  After an applicant has been issued collegiate license plates or renewal decals, the

    commission shall charge the institution whose plate was issued, a fee determined in accordance with

    Section 63-38-3.2 for management and administrative expenses incurred in issuing and renewing

    the collegiate license plates.

        (8) (a)  An applicant for original or renewal wildlife license plates must be a contributor to

    the Division of Wildlife Resources.

        (b)  This contribution shall be:

        (i)  collected by the division;

        (ii)  treated as a voluntary contribution for the funding of wildlife activities and not as a

    motor vehicle registration fee; and

        (iii)  deposited into the Wildlife Resources Account created in Section 23-14-13, less actual

    production and administrative costs associated with making and issuing wildlife license plates.

        (9)  The division shall issue [statehood centennial and] Olympic special group license plates.

- 10 -


        (10) (a)  An organization that makes a significant contribution to the state may request the

    commission to authorize special group license plates for the organization if the organization collects

    a minimum of 500 applications with the fees required under Section 41-1a-1211.

        (b)  If the commission approves the request, the division shall design a license plate in

    accordance with Subsections (2) and (3).

        (c)  If the commission rejects the request, the organization shall refund all fees to the

    applicants.

        (11)  Any person who meets the criteria established under this part for issuance of special

    group license plates may make application in the same manner provided in Sections 41-1a-410 and

    41-1a-411 for personalized special group license plates.

        (12) (a)  The commission shall make rules in accordance with Title 63, Chapter 46a, Utah

    Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:

        (i)  establish qualifying criteria for persons to receive, renew, or surrender special group

    license plates, a temporary removable windshield placard, or a removable windshield placard;

        (ii)  establish the maximum number of numerals or characters for special group license

    plates; and

        (iii)  require all temporary removable windshield placards and removable windshield placards

    to include:

        (A)  an identification number;

        (B)  an expiration date not to exceed six months for a temporary removable windshield

    placard and one year for a removable windshield placard; and

        (C)  the seal or other identifying mark of the division.

        (b)  The qualifying criteria under Subsection (12)(a) for a  person with a disability special

    group license plate, temporary removable windshield placard, or removable windshield placard shall

    include a requirement that an initial application of a person with a disability be accompanied by the

    certification of a licensed physician:

        (i)  that the applicant meets the definition of a person with a disability that limits or impairs

    the ability to walk as defined in the federal Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 58 Fed. Reg.

- 11 -


    10, 328 (1991); and

        (ii)  containing the period of time that the physician determines the applicant will have the

    disability, not to exceed six months in the case of a temporary disability.

        (13) (a)  Beginning January 1, 1997, the division may issue original veterans' license plates.

        (b)  An applicant for original veterans' license plates must be at least a one-time contributor

    to the Office of Veterans' Affairs.

        (c)  This contribution shall be:

        (i)  collected by the division;

        (ii)  treated as a voluntary contribution for the Office of Veterans' Affairs and not as a motor

    vehicle registration fee; and

        (iii)  transferred to the Office of Veterans' Affairs at least monthly, less actual production and

    administrative costs associated with making and issuing veterans' license plates.

        Section 7.  Section  41-1a-1201 is amended to read:

         41-1a-1201.  Disposition of fees.

        (1)  All fees received and collected under this part shall be transmitted daily to the state

    treasurer.

        (2)  Except as provided in Subsections (3) and (4), and Subsection 41-1a-408(8), all fees

    collected under this part shall be deposited in the Transportation Fund.

        (3) (a)  Funds generated under Subsections 41-1a-1211(1)(a), [(8)] (7)(a), and [(9)] (8) and

    Section 41-1a-1212 may be used by the commission as a dedicated credit to cover the costs incurred

    in issuing license plates under Part 4, License Plates and Registration Indicia.

        (b)  Funds collected under Subsections 41-1a-1211(3), (5)(b), and (5)(c), less the actual cost

    incurred by the division in purchasing decals for special group license plates, shall be deposited in

    the Transportation Fund.

        (c)  Fees for statehood centennial [special group] license plates shall be collected and

    deposited[:  (i)  through December 31, 1996, as provided in Title 9, Chapter 1, Part 5, Utah

    Statehood Centennial Commission; and (ii)  beginning January 1, 1997,] in the Transportation Fund,

    less production and administrative costs incurred by the commission.

- 12 -


        (d)  Fees for Olympic special group license plates shall be collected and deposited as

    provided under Section 41-1a-417.

        (4)  All funds available to the commission for purchase and distribution of license plates and

    decals are nonlapsing.

        (5)  Except as provided in Subsection (3) and Section 41-1a-1205, the expenses of the

    commission in enforcing and administering this part shall be provided for by legislative

    appropriation from the revenues of the Transportation Fund.

        Section 8.  Section  41-1a-1211 is amended to read:

         41-1a-1211.  License plate fees -- Application fees for issuance and renewal of

     personalized and special group license plates -- Replacement fee for license plates -- Postage

     fees.

        (1)  A license plate fee of $5 per set shall be paid to the division for the issuance of any new

    license plate under Part 4, License Plates and Registration Indicia, except for license plates issued

    under Sections 41-1a-407 and 41-1a-417.  The license plate fee shall be deposited as follows:

        (a)  $4 as provided in Section 41-1a-1201; and

        (b)  $1 in the Transportation Fund.

        (2)  An applicant for original issuance of personalized license plates issued under Section

    41-1a-410 shall pay a $50 per set license plate application fee in addition to the fee required in

    Subsection (1).

        (3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (3)(b)[,] and (3)(c), [and (6),] applicants for

    original issuance of special group license plates issued under Section 41-1a-408 shall pay a $50 per

    set license plate application fee in addition to the fee required under Subsection (1).

        (b)  A person who qualifies for a licensed amateur radio operator special group license plate

    shall pay a $5 fee for the original set of license plates in addition to the fee required under Subsection

    (1).

        (c)  A person who qualifies for legislative, United States Congressional, person with a

    disability, collegiate, veterans', wildlife, National Guard, Purple Heart, Prisoner of War, Survivor

    of the Japanese Attack on Pearl Harbor, firefighter, or farm vehicle special group license plates is

- 13 -


    exempt from payment of special group license plate application fees imposed under this subsection.

        (4)  An applicant for original issuance of personalized special group license plates shall pay

    the license plate application fees required in Subsection (2) in addition to the license plate fees and

    license plate application fees established under Subsections (1)[,] and (3)[, and (6)].

        (5)  The following application fees for renewal of personalized and special group license

    plates shall be paid to the division at the time of renewal of registration:

        (a)  an applicant for renewal of personalized license plates issued under Section 41-1a-410

    shall pay a $10 per set application fee;

        (b)  except as provided in [Subsections] Subsection (5)(c) [and (6)], an applicant for renewal

    of special group license plates issued under Section 41-1a-408 shall pay a $10 per set application fee;

    and

        (c)  an applicant for renewal of legislative, United States Congressional, person with a

    disability, collegiate, wildlife, National Guard, Purple Heart, Prisoner of War, Survivor of the

    Japanese Attack on Pearl Harbor, farm vehicle, vintage vehicle, firefighter, or licensed amateur radio

    operator special group license plates is exempt from payment of application fees imposed under this

    subsection.

        [(6) (a)  For vehicles with registration years expiring on or before December 31, 1996,

    applicants for original statehood centennial special group license plates or renewal of registration

    with statehood centennial special group license plates shall pay the fees required in Section 9-1-503.]

        [(b)  For vehicles with registration years beginning on or after January 1, 1997, applicants

    for:]

        [(i)  original statehood centennial special group license plates shall pay a special fee of $25

    at the time the centennial license plates are issued; and]

        [(ii)  renewal of registration with statehood centennial special group license plates are exempt

    from paying an additional special annual renewal fee for the centennial license plates.]

        [(7)] (6)  An applicant for renewal of personalized special group license plates shall pay the

    application fee required in Subsection (5)(a) in addition to the applicable application fees for renewal

    of license plates established under Subsections (5)(b)[,] and (5)(c)[, and (6)].

- 14 -


        [(8)] (7)  A fee of $5 shall be paid to the division for the replacement of any license plate

    issued under Part 4, License Plates and Registration Indicia.  The license plate fee shall be deposited

    as follows:

        (a)  $4 as provided in Section 41-1a-1201; and

        (b)  $1 in the Transportation Fund.

        [(9)] (8)  The division may charge a fee established under Section  63-38-3.2 to recover its

    costs for the replacement of decals issued under Section 41-1a-408.

        [(10)] (9)  The division may charge a fee established under Section 63-38-3.2 to recover the

    cost of issuing stickers under Section 41-1a-416.

        [(11)] (10)  In addition to any other fees required by this section, the division shall assess a

    fee established under Section 63-38-3.2 to cover postage expenses if new or replacement license

    plates are mailed to the applicant.

        [(12)] (11)  The fees required under this section are separate from and in addition to

    registration fees required under Section 41-1a-1206. 

        [(13)] (12)  For vehicles with registration years expiring on or before June 30, 2002,

    applicants for original Olympic special group license plates or renewal of registration with Olympic

    special group license plates shall pay the fees required under Section 41-1a-417.

        Section 9.  Repealer.

        This act repeals:

        Section  9-1-503, Centennial license plates -- Fees -- Design.

        Section 10.   Effective date.

        This act takes effect on July 1, 1997.

- 15 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







