Sponsors: []Modifications: (12)(a)(12)or motel(ii)  rental of tourist accommodations, including hotels, motels, tourist homes,condominiums, condominium hotels, mobile home park accommodations, campgrounds, or similarpublic accommodations for any period of less than 30 consecutive days, and the managementactivities associated with these rentals; or(iii)Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0200.ZIP 7,670 Bytes
[Introduced][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 200 Enrolled









     NIGHTLY RENTAL PROPERTY MANAGERS




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor: Alarik Myrin


    AN ACT RELATING TO SECURITIES, REAL ESTATE DIVISION; AMENDING THE

    DEFINITION OF PROPERTY MANAGEMENT TO EXCLUDE RENTAL OF

    CERTAIN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS FOR ANY PERIOD LESS THAN 30

    CONSECUTIVE DAYS AND THE MANAGEMENT OF THESE RENTALS; AND

    MAKING TECHNICAL CHANGES.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         61-2-2, as last amended by Chapter 102, Laws of Utah 1996

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  61-2-2 is amended to read:

         61-2-2.  Definitions.

        As used in this chapter:

        (1)  "Associate real estate broker" and "associate broker" means any person employed or

    engaged as an independent contractor by or on behalf of a licensed principal real estate broker to

    perform any act set out in Subsection (12) for valuable consideration, who has qualified under the

    provisions of this chapter as a principal real estate broker.

        (2)  "Branch office" means a principal broker's real estate brokerage office other than his

    main office.

        (3)  "Commission" means the Real Estate Commission established under this chapter.

        (4)  "Concurrence" means the entities given a concurring role must jointly agree for action

    to be taken.

        (5)  "Condominium" or "condominium unit" is as defined in Section 57-8-3.

        (6) "Condominium homeowners' association" means all of the condominium unit owners

    acting as a group in accordance with declarations and bylaws.

        (7) (a)  "Condominium hotel" means one or more condominium units that are operated as


    a hotel.

        (b)  "Condominium hotel" does not mean a hotel consisting of condominium units, all of

    which are owned by a single entity.

        (8)  "Director" means the director of the Division of Real Estate.

        (9)  "Division" means the Division of Real Estate.

        (10)  "Executive director" means the director of the Department of Commerce.

        (11)  "Main office" means the address which a principal broker designates with the division

    as his primary brokerage office.

        (12)  "Principal real estate broker" and "principal broker" means any person:

        (a) (i)  who sells or lists for sale, buys, exchanges, or auctions real estate, options on real

    estate, or improvements on real estate with the expectation of receiving valuable consideration; or

        (ii)  who advertises, offers, attempts, or otherwise holds himself out to be engaged in the

    business described in Subsection (12)(a)(i);

        (b)  employed by or on behalf of the owner of real estate or by a prospective purchaser of real

    estate who performs any of the acts described in Subsection (12)(a), whether his compensation is at

    a stated salary, a commission basis, upon a salary and commission basis, or otherwise;

        (c)  who, with the expectation of receiving valuable consideration, manages property owned

    by another person or who advertises or otherwise holds himself out to be engaged in property

    management;

        (d)  who, with the expectation of receiving valuable consideration, assists or directs in the

    procurement of prospects for or the negotiation of the transactions listed in Subsections (12)(a) and

    (c); and

        (e)  except for mortgage lenders, title insurance agents, and their employees, who assists or

    directs in the closing of any real estate transaction with the expectation of receiving valuable

    consideration.

        (13) (a)  "Property management" means engaging in, with the expectation of receiving

    valuable consideration, the management of property owned by another person or advertising or

    otherwise claiming to be engaged in property management by:

- 2 -


        (i)  advertising for, arranging, negotiating, offering, or otherwise attempting or participating

    in a transaction calculated to secure the rental or leasing of real estate;

        (ii)  collecting, agreeing, offering, or otherwise attempting to collect rent for the real estate

    and accounting for and disbursing the money collected; or

        (iii)  authorizing expenditures for repairs to the real estate.

        (b)  "Property management" does not include:

        (i)  hotel or motel management [unless the hotel is a condominium hotel]; [or]

        (ii)  rental of tourist accommodations, including hotels, motels, tourist homes,

    condominiums, condominium hotels, mobile home park accommodations, campgrounds, or similar

    public accommodations for any period of less than 30 consecutive days, and the management

    activities associated with these rentals; or

        [(ii)] (iii)  the leasing or management of surface or subsurface minerals or oil and gas

    interests, if the leasing or management is separate from a sale or lease of the surface estate.

        (14)  "Real estate" includes leaseholds and business opportunities involving real property.

        (15)  "Real estate sales agent" and "sales agent" means any person employed or engaged as

    an independent contractor by or on behalf of a licensed principal real estate broker to perform for

    valuable consideration any act set out in Subsection (12).

        (16) (a)  "Regular salaried employee" means an individual who performs a service for wages

    or other remuneration, whose employer withholds federal employment taxes under a contract of hire,

    written or oral, express or implied.

        (b)  "Regular salaried employee" does not include a person who performs services on a

    project-by-project basis or on a commission basis.

        (17)  "Reinstatement" means restoring a license that has expired or has been suspended.

        (18)  "Reissuance" means the process by which a licensee may obtain a license following

    revocation of the license.

        (19)  "Renewal" means extending a license for an additional licensing period on or before

    the date the license expires.

- 3 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







