Sponsors: []Modifications: (a)(b)  Debt issued under authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 2, 1997 Highway GeneralObligation Bond Authorization, and Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, 1997 Highway Bond AnticipationNote Authorization, may not be included as part of the total indebtedness of the state of Utah indetermining the debt limit established by this Subsection (2).(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), the(b)  Notwithstanding the limitation contained in Subsection (1)(a), debt issued under theauthority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 2, 1997 Highway General Obligation Bond Authorization andTitle 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, 1997 Highway Bond Anticipation Notes Authorization, is not subjectto the debt limitation established by this section.    63-49-23.(1)  When there are insufficient appropriations or monies available from other legal sourcesto pay interest on any bond anticipation notes issued under the authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization, the Division of Finance shall inform theDepartment of Transportation of the amount necessary to pay that interest.(2)  After receiving notice under Subsection (1), the Department of Transportation shalltransfer monies from any available source other than the Transportation Fund to the Division ofFinance for deposit into the Debt Service Fund to pay interest on bond anticipation notes issuedunder the authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization.    63B-6-201.The commission created under Section 63B-1-201 may issue and sell general obligationbonds of the state pledging the full faith, credit, and resources of the state for the payment of theprincipal of and interest on the bonds, to provide funds to the Department of Transportation.    63B-6-202.(1) (a)  The total amount of bonds issued under this part may not exceed $600,000,000.(b)  During fiscal years 1997-98 and 1998-99, the commission may not issue more than$350,000,000 in total bonds under this part.(2) (a)  Proceeds from the issuance of bonds shall be provided to the Department ofTransportation to provide funds to pay all or part of the costs of state highway construction projects.(b)  These costs may include the cost of acquiring land, interests in land, easements andrights-of-way, improving sites, and making all improvements necessary, incidental, or convenientto the facilities, interest estimated to accrue on these bonds during the period to be covered byconstruction of the projects plus a period of six months after the end of the construction period,interest estimated to accrue on any bond anticipation notes issued under the authority of Chapter 6,Part 3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization, and all related engineering, architectural,and legal fees.(3)  If, after completion of the projects authorized under Subsection (2)(a) and payment ofthe costs of issuing and selling the bonds under Section 63B-6-203, any bond proceeds remainunexpended, the Department of Transportation may use those unexpended proceeds to pay all or partof the costs of construction projects approved by the Transportation Commission.(4)  The commission, may, by resolution, make any statement of intent relating to areimbursement that is necessary or desirable to comply with federal tax law.(5)  The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements related to that projectbefore the receipt of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter.    63B-6-203.The proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter shall be used for the purposes described inSection 63B-6-202 and to pay all or part of any cost incident to the issuance and sale of the bondsincluding, without limitation, printing, registration and transfer costs, legal fees, trustees' fees,financial advisors' fees, and underwriters' discount.    63B-6-204.(1)  Bonds issued under this chapter may be authorized, sold, and issued at times and in amanner determined by the commission by resolution.(2)  Bonds may be issued in one or more series, in amounts, and shall bear dates, interestrates, including a variable rate, and maturity dates as the commission determines by resolution.(3)  A bond issued may not mature later than 20 years after the date of final passage of thischapter.    63B-6-205.(1)  In the issuance of bonds, the commission may determine by resolution:(a)  the manner of sale, including public or private sale;(b)  the terms and conditions of sale, including price, whether at, below, or above face value;(c)  denominations;(d)  form;(e)  manner of execution;(f)  manner of authentication;(g)  place and medium of purchase;(h)  redemption terms; and(i)  other provisions and details it considers appropriate.(2)  The commission may, by resolution, adopt a plan of financing, which may include termsand conditions of arrangements entered into by the commission on behalf of the state with financialand other institutions for letters of credit, standby letters of credit, reimbursement agreements, andremarketing, indexing, and tender agent agreements to secure the bonds, including payment fromany legally available source of fees, charges, or other amounts coming due under the agreementsentered into by the commission.(3) (a)  Any signature of a public official authorized by resolution of the commission to signthe bonds may be a facsimile signature of that official imprinted, engraved, stamped, or otherwiseplaced on the bonds.(b)  If all signatures of public officials on the bonds are facsimile signatures, provision shallbe made for a manual authenticating signature on the bonds by or on behalf of a designatedauthentication agent.(c)  If an official ceases to hold office before delivery of the bonds signed by that official, thesignature or facsimile signature of the official is nevertheless valid for all purposes.(d)  A facsimile of the state seal may be imprinted, engraved, stamped, or otherwise placedon the bonds.(4) (a)  The commission may enact resolutions providing for the replacement of lost,destroyed, or mutilated bonds, or for the exchange of bonds after issuance for bonds of smaller orlarger denominations.(b)  Bonds in changed denominations shall:(i)  be exchanged for the original bonds in like aggregate principal amounts and in a mannerthat prevents the duplication of interest; and(ii)  bear interest at the same rate, mature on the same date, and be as nearly as practicablein the form of the original bonds.(5) (a)  Bonds may be registered as to both principal and interest or may be in a book entryform under which the right to principal and interest may be transferred only through a book entry.(b)  The commission may provide for the services and payment for the services of one ormore financial institutions or other entities or persons, or nominees, within or outside the state, forthe authentication, registration, transfer, including record, bookkeeping, or book entry functions,exchange, and payment of the bonds.(c)  The records of ownership, registration, transfer, and exchange of the bonds, and ofpersons to whom payment with respect to the obligations is made, are private records as providedin Section 63-2-302, or protected records as provided in Section 63-2-304.(d)  The bonds and any evidences of participation interest in the bonds may be issued,executed, authenticated, registered, transferred, exchanged, and otherwise made to comply with Title15, Chapter 7, Registered Public Obligations Act, or any other act of the Legislature relating to theregistration of obligations enacted to meet the requirements of Section 149 of the Internal RevenueCode of 1986, as amended, or any successor to it, and applicable regulations.(6)  The commission may:(a)  by resolution, provide for payment to the United States of whatever amounts arenecessary to comply with Section 148 (f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and(b)  enter into agreements with financial and other institutions and attorneys to provide for:(i)  the calculation, holding, and payment of those amounts; and(ii)  payment from any legally available source of fees, charges, or other amounts coming dueunder any agreements entered into by the commission.    63B-6-206.(1)  The commission may not issue bonds under this chapter in an amount that violates thelimitation described in Utah Constitution Article XIV, Section 1.(2)  For purposes of applying the debt limitation contained in Utah Constitution Article XIV,Section 1, the value of the taxable property in Utah is considered to be 100% of the fair market valueof the taxable property of the state, as computed from the last assessment for state purposes previousto the issuance of the bonds.    63B-6-207.(1)  Each year after issuance of the bonds and until all outstanding bonds are retired, thereis levied a direct annual tax on all real and personal property within the state subject to state taxation,sufficient to pay:(a)  applicable bond redemption premiums, if any;(b)  interest on the bonds as it becomes due; and(c)  principal of the bonds as it becomes due.(2) (a)  The State Tax Commission shall fix the rate of the direct annual tax levy each year.(b)  The tax shall be collected and the proceeds applied as provided in this chapter.(3)  The direct annual tax imposed under this section is abated to the extent money isavailable from sources, other than ad valorem taxes in the sinking fund, for the payment of bondinterest, principal, and redemption premiums.    63B-6-208.(1)  There is created a sinking fund, to be administered by the state treasurer, entitled the"1997 Highway General Obligation Bonds Sinking Fund."(2)  All monies deposited in the sinking fund, from whatever source, shall be used to pay debtservice on the bonds.(3)  The proceeds of all taxes levied under this chapter are appropriated to this fund.(4)  The state treasurer may create separate accounts within the sinking fund for each seriesof bonds issued.    63B-6-209.(1)  The Division of Finance shall draw warrants on the state treasury before any interest,principal, or redemption premiums become due on the bonds.(2)  After receipt of the warrants, the state treasurer shall:(a)  promptly pay the warrants from funds within the sinking fund; and(b)  immediately transmit the amount paid to the paying agent for the bonds.    63B-6-210.(1)  The state treasurer may, by following the procedures and requirements of Title 51,Chapter 7, State Money Management Act, invest any money contained in the sinking fund until itis needed for the purposes for which the fund is created.(2)  Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the commission authorizing the issuanceof bonds under this chapter, the treasurer shall retain all income from the investment of any moneycontained in the sinking fund in the sinking fund and use it for the payment of debt service on thebonds.    63B-6-211.(1) (a)  Proceeds from the sale of bonds issued under this chapter shall be deposited withinone or more accounts as determined by resolution of the commission.(b)  The state treasurer shall administer and maintain these accounts unless otherwiseprovided by the commission by resolution.(c)  The commission, by resolution, may provide for the deposit of these monies with atrustee and the administration, disposition, or investment of these monies by this trustee.(2) (a)  The commission, by resolution, shall provide for the kinds of investments in whichthe proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter may be invested.(b)  Income from the investment of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter shall beapplied as provided by resolution of the commission.(3)  Any unexpended bond proceeds issued under this chapter shall be deposited, uponcompletion of the purposes for which the bonds were issued, in the sinking fund, unless otherwiseprovided in the resolution of the commission authorizing the issuance of bonds under this chapter.    63B-6-212.(1)  The commission may provide for the refunding of any of the bonds in accordance withTitle 11, Chapter 27, Utah Refunding Bond Act.(2)  For purposes of Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Refunding Bond Act, the state of Utah isconsidered the public body and the commission its governing body.    63B-6-213.(1)  The commission may not issue any bond under this chapter until it finds and certifies thatall conditions precedent to issuance of the bonds have been satisfied.(2)  A recital on any bond of this finding and certification conclusively establishes thecompletion and satisfaction of all such conditions.    63B-6-214.The bonds issued under this chapter, any interest paid on the bonds, and any income fromthe bonds are not taxable in this state for any purpose, except for the corporate franchise tax.    63B-6-215.Bonds issued under this chapter are legal investments for all state trust funds, insurancecompanies, banks, trust companies, and the State School Fund and may be used as collateral tosecure legal obligations.    63B-6-216.(1)  The commission may:(a)  publish any resolution it adopts under this chapter once in a newspaper having generalcirculation in Utah; or(b)  in lieu of publishing the entire resolution, publish a notice of bonds to be issued, titledas such, containing the information required by Subsection 11-14-21(3).(2) (a)  Any interested person, for 30 days after the date of publication, may contest:(i)  the legality of the resolution;(ii)  any of the bonds authorized under it; or(iii)  any of the provisions made for the security and repayment of the bonds.(b)  After 30 days, a person may not contest the legality of the resolution, any of the bondsauthorized under it, or any of the provisions made for the security and repayment of the bonds forany cause.    63B-6-217.The governor shall report the commission's proceedings to each annual general session ofthe Legislature in his budget for as long as bonds issued under this chapter remain outstanding.    63B-6-301.As used in this part:(1)  "Bond anticipation note" means a note issued in anticipation of the receipt of theproceeds of the sale of the bonds authorized under Part 2 of this chapter.(2)  "Flexible note" means a bond anticipation note whose interest is payable at, and on oneor more dates before, maturity.(3) (a)  "Short-term series note" means a bond anticipation note that is one of a series of notesissued pursuant to a financing program under which it is expected that:(i)  each note will be paid from the proceeds of one or more renewal notes of that series; and(ii)  the final note or notes of the series will be paid from:(A)  the proceeds of bonds in anticipation of the receipt of which the note or notes wereissued; or(B)  monies of the state on hand and legally available for that purpose.(b)  "Short-term series note" includes any note issued pursuant to a revolving creditagreement or other similar liquidity facility for the purpose of renewing or paying outstandingshort-term series notes on their stated maturity dates when those short-term series notes are notrenewed or paid from the proceeds of one or more other renewal notes of the series.    63B-6-302.(1)  The state treasurer may, by written order, issue bond anticipation notes and renewals ofbond anticipation notes, including, but not limited to, flexible notes and short-term series notes, inthe form and with the terms that he determines.(2)  The state treasurer may:(a)  enter into whatever agreements with other persons that he considers necessary orappropriate in connection with the issuance, sale, and resale of the notes; and(b)  resell or retire any notes purchased by the state before the stated maturity of those notes.(3) (a)  The notes and renewals of the notes shall:(i)  bear the interest rate or rates as determined by the state treasurer; and(ii)  mature within a period not to exceed three years.(b)  The notes and renewals of notes may:(i)  bear a variable interest rate; and(ii)  be redeemed prior to maturity by the state treasurer, but only in accordance with theprovisions of the notes relating to redemption prior to maturity.(4)  The proceeds from the sale of the notes may be used only for:(a)  the purposes established in Section 63B-6-202;(b)  the payment of principal of and, if not otherwise provided, interest on, bond anticipationnotes;(c)  the payment of costs of issuance; or(d)  any combination of Subsections (4)(a), (b), and (c).(5) (a)  All of the notes and any renewals of the notes shall be payable from the proceeds ofthe sale of bonds.(b)  A renewal of any note may not be issued after the sale of bonds in anticipation of whichthe original note was issued.(6)  If a sale of the bonds has not occurred before the maturity of the notes issued inanticipation of the sale, the state treasurer shall, in order to meet the notes then maturing:(a)  issue renewal notes for that purpose;(b)  pay the notes from state monies legally available for paying those notes; or(c)  any combination of Subsections (6)(a) and (b).(7)  Each note and any renewal of any note, with the interest on the note or renewal,constitute general obligations of the state.(8)  Each note and any renewal of any note, with the interest on the note or renewal, shall be:(a)  secured by the full faith, credit, and resources of the state in the manner provided in Part2 of this chapter;(b)  payable from:(i)  the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and not from any other borrowing; and(ii)  monies of the state on hand and legally available for that purpose; or(iii)  any combination of Subsections (8)(b)(i) and (ii); and(c)  payable within five years from the date of original issue.(9)  The total amount of notes or renewals of notes issued and outstanding at any one timemay not exceed the lesser of:(a)  the total amount of bonds authorized to be issued but not yet issued; or(b)  $260,000,000.(10)  The state treasurer shall, in his annual report to the governor, include a detailedstatement of all notes and bonds issued during the year and of his actions in relation to them.    63B-6-303.(1)  The notes and renewals of notes may provide the holders of the notes or renewals ofnotes with the right to require the state or other persons to purchase or redeem the notes or renewalnotes before the stated maturity of the notes or renewals.(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), the holders of the notes and renewals of notes may notbe provided with the right to require the state to repurchase or redeem the notes and renewals of thenotes before their stated maturity unless the state has entered into one or more letter of creditagreements or other liquidity facility agreements:(a)  for the express purpose of those sales;(b)  that require a financially responsible party or parties to the agreement or agreements,other than the state, to purchase or redeem all or any portion of the notes and renewals of notestendered by the holders of the notes or renewals of notes for repurchase or redemption before thestated maturity of the notes and renewals of notes; and(c)  that continue until the right of the holders of the notes and renewals of notes to requirerepurchase or redemption of the notes and renewals of notes before the stated maturity has ceased.    63B-6-304.(1) (a)  Sections 63B-6-205, 63B-6-206, 63B-6-213, 63B-6-214, 63B-6-215, and 63B-6-216apply to any notes or renewals of notes issued under this part.(b) (i)  For purposes of this part, any action that those sections require or permit thecommission to take shall be considered sufficient if taken by the state treasurer.(ii)  The treasurer may take action by issuing a written order, or in some other manner thathe finds necessary or convenient, to accomplish the purposes of this part.(2)  The treasurer may:(a)  in a written order, establish whatever funds and accounts are necessary or desirable tocarry out the purposes of this part; and(b)  until the monies are needed for the purpose for which the fund or account was created,invest the monies held in those funds and accounts by following the procedures and requirementsof Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act.Full text:



Utah State Legislature












Legislators

By Session (1896-Current)
Alphabetical (Historical)
Find by Address/Map
More


Bills

Bills/Bill Requests
Passed Bills
2017 Bills

Keyword Search
Reading Calendars
Tracking Service
More


Committees

All Committees
Appropriations
Commissions

Independent Legislative Ethics Commission
Interim
Standing
Subcommittees
Task Forces
Bills In Committees


Utah Code / Constitution


Title/Chapter/Section
Keyword Search 

Utah Constitution
Laws of Utah 1851-ongoing
Utah Territorial Laws 
More


Senate

Main Page 
About The Senate 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Extraordinary Sessions 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Senate Journals 


House

Main Page
About the House 
Leadership 
Roster 
Seating Chart 
District Maps 
Reading Calendars 
Past Floor Debates 
Journals 
Conflict of Interest Forms 


Legislative Guide 

Legislative Guide
Civic Programs
GRAMA (Records Requests)


Publications

Search Publications
Appropriations
Audits
Bagels & Briefings
Briefing Papers
Digest of Legislation
Legislative Drafting Manual

Journals

Interim Highlights

Legislative Rules
GRAMA (Records Requests)
Public Email
State Organization Charts
YouTube Channel
Requests for Proposals and Legal Notices
More


Legislative Histories

Legislative History Resources
How to Research
Bill Drafting/Research Files (1990-Ongoing)

Working Bills (1896-1989)
Interim Committee Histories (1990-Ongoing) 
Journals
Past House Floor Debates
Past Senate Floor Debates
More


Staff Offices

All Legislative Offices
Auditor General
Fiscal Analyst
Printing
Research and General Counsel
Staff Awards
Job Opportunities
More


Links of Interest

Utah Administrative Rules
Courts
Utah State Capitol
State of Utah
Federal Legislation
More






 

Download Zipped Enrolled WP 6.1 SB0243.ZIP 22,870 Bytes
[Introduced][Amended][Status][Bill Documents][Fiscal Note][Bills Directory]


S.B. 243 Enrolled








    

Corrected Version


     BONDS FOR HIGHWAY FUNDING




    1997 GENERAL SESSION


    STATE OF UTAH


     Sponsor:  Lyle W. Hillyard


    AN ACT RELATING TO BONDING FOR HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR;

    AUTHORIZING THE  ISSUANCE  AND SALE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

    FOR  HIGHWAYS AND RELATED FACILITIES; AUTHORIZING THE  ISSUANCE 

    AND SALE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES FOR 

    HIGHWAYS AND RELATED FACILITIES; SPECIFYING THE USE OF BOND AND

    NOTE PROCEEDS  AND  THE  MANNER  OF  ISSUANCE;  IMPOSING AND

    ABATING A PROPERTY TAX; CREATING   SINKING   FUNDS; MODIFYING

    DEBT LIMIT REQUIREMENTS;   PROVIDING FOR RELATED MATTERS; AND

    MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    This act affects sections of Utah Code Annotated 1953 as follows:

    AMENDS:

         63-9a-6, as last amended by Chapter 260, Laws of Utah 1981

         63-38c-402, as renumbered and amended by Chapter 275, Laws of Utah 1996

    ENACTS:

         63-49-23, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-201, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-202, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-203, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-204, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-205, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-206, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-207, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-208, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-209, Utah Code Annotated 1953


         63B-6-210, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-211, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-212, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-213, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-214, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-215, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-216, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-217, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-302, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-303, Utah Code Annotated 1953

         63B-6-304, Utah Code Annotated 1953

    Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Utah:

        Section 1.  Section  63-9a-6 is amended to read:

         63-9a-6.  Obligations issued by authority -- Limitation of liability on obligations --

     Limitation on amount of obligations issued.

        (1) All obligations issued by the authority under this chapter shall be limited obligations of

    the authority and shall not constitute, nor give rise to, a general obligation or liability of, nor a charge

    against the general credit or taxing power of, this state or any of its political subdivisions. This

    limitation shall be plainly stated upon all obligations.

        (2) (a)  No authority obligations incurred under this section may be issued in an amount

    exceeding the difference between the total indebtedness of the state of Utah and an amount equal to

    1 1/2% of the value of the taxable property of the state.

        (b)  Debt issued under authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 2, 1997 Highway General

    Obligation Bond Authorization, and Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, 1997 Highway Bond Anticipation

    Note Authorization, may not be included as part of the total indebtedness of the state of Utah in

    determining the debt limit established by this Subsection (2).

        (3)  The obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, following approval of

- 2 -


    the Legislature, and may:

        (a)  be executed and delivered at any time, and from time to time, as the authority may

    determine;

        (b)  be sold at public or private sale in the manner and at the prices, either at, in excess of,

    or below their face value and at such times as the authority may determine;

        (c)  be in the form and denominations as the authority may determine;

        (d)  be of the tenor as the authority may determine;

        (e)  be in registered or bearer form either as to principal or interest or both;

        (f)  be payable in those installments and at the times as the authority may determine;

        (g)  be payable at the places, either within or without this state, as the authority may

    determine;

        (h)  bear interest at the rate or rates, payable at the place or places, and evidenced in the

    manner, as the authority may determine;

        (i)  be redeemable prior to maturity, with or without premium;

        (j)  contain such other provisions not inconsistent with this chapter as shall be deemed for

    the best interests of the authority and provided for in the proceedings of the authority under which

    the bonds shall be authorized to be issued; and

        (k)  bear facsimile signatures and seals.

        (4)  The authority may pay any expenses, premiums or commissions, which it deems

    necessary or advantageous in connection with the authorization, sale, and issuance of these

    obligations, from the proceeds of the sale of the obligations or from the revenues of the projects

    involved.

        Section 2.  Section  63-38c-402 is amended to read:

         63-38c-402.  Debt limitation -- Vote requirement needed to exceed limitation --

     Exceptions.

        (1)  [The] (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), the outstanding general obligation

    debt of the state may not exceed 20% of the maximum allowable appropriations limit unless

    approved by more than a two-thirds vote of both houses of the Legislature.

- 3 -


        (b)  Notwithstanding the limitation contained in Subsection (1)(a), debt issued under the

    authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 2, 1997 Highway General Obligation Bond Authorization and

    Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, 1997 Highway Bond Anticipation Notes Authorization, is not subject

    to the debt limitation established by this section.

        (2)  This section does not apply if contractual rights will be impaired.

        Section 3.  Section  63-49-23 is enacted to read:

         63-49-23.  Transfer of monies -- Debt service.

        (1)  When there are insufficient appropriations or monies available from other legal sources

    to pay interest on any bond anticipation notes issued under the authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part

    3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization, the Division of Finance shall inform the

    Department of Transportation of the amount necessary to pay that interest.

        (2)  After receiving notice under Subsection (1), the Department of Transportation shall

    transfer monies from any available source other than the Transportation Fund to the Division of

    Finance for deposit into the Debt Service Fund to pay interest on bond anticipation notes issued

    under the authority of Title 63B, Chapter 6, Part 3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization.

        Section 4.  Section  63B-6-201 is enacted to read:

     Part 2.  1997 Highway General Obligation Bond Authorization


         63B-6-201.  State Bonding Commission authorized to issue general obligation bonds.

        The commission created under Section 63B-1-201 may issue and sell general obligation

    bonds of the state pledging the full faith, credit, and resources of the state for the payment of the

    principal of and interest on the bonds, to provide funds to the Department of Transportation.

        Section 5.  Section  63B-6-202 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-202.  Maximum amount -- Projects authorized.

        (1) (a)  The total amount of bonds issued under this part may not exceed $600,000,000.

        (b)  During fiscal years 1997-98 and 1998-99, the commission may not issue more than

    $350,000,000 in total bonds under this part.

        (2) (a)  Proceeds from the issuance of bonds shall be provided to the Department of

    Transportation to provide funds to pay all or part of the costs of state highway construction projects.

- 4 -


        (b)  These costs may include the cost of acquiring land, interests in land, easements and

    rights-of-way, improving sites, and making all improvements necessary, incidental, or convenient

    to the facilities, interest estimated to accrue on these bonds during the period to be covered by

    construction of the projects plus a period of six months after the end of the construction period,

    interest estimated to accrue on any bond anticipation notes issued under the authority of Chapter 6,

    Part 3, Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization, and all related engineering, architectural,

    and legal fees.

        (3)  If, after completion of the projects authorized under Subsection (2)(a) and payment of

    the costs of issuing and selling the bonds under Section 63B-6-203, any bond proceeds remain

    unexpended, the Department of Transportation may use those unexpended proceeds to pay all or part

    of the costs of construction projects approved by the Transportation Commission.

        (4)  The commission, may, by resolution, make any statement of intent relating to a

    reimbursement that is necessary or desirable to comply with federal tax law.

        (5)  The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements related to that project

    before the receipt of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter.

        Section 6.  Section  63B-6-203 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-203.  Bond proceeds may be used to pay costs of issuance and sale.

        The proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter shall be used for the purposes described in

    Section 63B-6-202 and to pay all or part of any cost incident to the issuance and sale of the bonds

    including, without limitation, printing, registration and transfer costs, legal fees, trustees' fees,

    financial advisors' fees, and underwriters' discount.

        Section 7.  Section  63B-6-204 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-204.  Manner of issuance -- Amounts, interest, and maturity.

        (1)  Bonds issued under this chapter may be authorized, sold, and issued at times and in a

    manner determined by the commission by resolution.

        (2)  Bonds may be issued in one or more series, in amounts, and shall bear dates, interest

    rates, including a variable rate, and maturity dates as the commission determines by resolution.

        (3)  A bond issued may not mature later than 20 years after the date of final passage of this

- 5 -


    chapter.

        Section 8.  Section  63B-6-205 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-205.  Terms and conditions of sale -- Plan of financing -- Signatures --

     Replacement -- Registration -- Federal rebate.

        (1)  In the issuance of bonds, the commission may determine by resolution:

        (a)  the manner of sale, including public or private sale;

        (b)  the terms and conditions of sale, including price, whether at, below, or above face value;

        (c)  denominations;

        (d)  form;

        (e)  manner of execution;

        (f)  manner of authentication;

        (g)  place and medium of purchase;

        (h)  redemption terms; and

        (i)  other provisions and details it considers appropriate.

        (2)  The commission may, by resolution, adopt a plan of financing, which may include terms

    and conditions of arrangements entered into by the commission on behalf of the state with financial

    and other institutions for letters of credit, standby letters of credit, reimbursement agreements, and

    remarketing, indexing, and tender agent agreements to secure the bonds, including payment from

    any legally available source of fees, charges, or other amounts coming due under the agreements

    entered into by the commission.

        (3) (a)  Any signature of a public official authorized by resolution of the commission to sign

    the bonds may be a facsimile signature of that official imprinted, engraved, stamped, or otherwise

    placed on the bonds.

        (b)  If all signatures of public officials on the bonds are facsimile signatures, provision shall

    be made for a manual authenticating signature on the bonds by or on behalf of a designated

    authentication agent.

        (c)  If an official ceases to hold office before delivery of the bonds signed by that official, the

    signature or facsimile signature of the official is nevertheless valid for all purposes.

- 6 -


        (d)  A facsimile of the state seal may be imprinted, engraved, stamped, or otherwise placed

    on the bonds.

        (4) (a)  The commission may enact resolutions providing for the replacement of lost,

    destroyed, or mutilated bonds, or for the exchange of bonds after issuance for bonds of smaller or

    larger denominations.

        (b)  Bonds in changed denominations shall:

        (i)  be exchanged for the original bonds in like aggregate principal amounts and in a manner

    that prevents the duplication of interest; and

        (ii)  bear interest at the same rate, mature on the same date, and be as nearly as practicable

    in the form of the original bonds.

        (5) (a)  Bonds may be registered as to both principal and interest or may be in a book entry

    form under which the right to principal and interest may be transferred only through a book entry.

        (b)  The commission may provide for the services and payment for the services of one or

    more financial institutions or other entities or persons, or nominees, within or outside the state, for

    the authentication, registration, transfer, including record, bookkeeping, or book entry functions,

    exchange, and payment of the bonds.

        (c)  The records of ownership, registration, transfer, and exchange of the bonds, and of

    persons to whom payment with respect to the obligations is made, are private records as provided

    in Section 63-2-302, or protected records as provided in Section 63-2-304.

        (d)  The bonds and any evidences of participation interest in the bonds may be issued,

    executed, authenticated, registered, transferred, exchanged, and otherwise made to comply with Title

    15, Chapter 7, Registered Public Obligations Act, or any other act of the Legislature relating to the

    registration of obligations enacted to meet the requirements of Section 149 of the Internal Revenue

    Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor to it, and applicable regulations.

        (6)  The commission may:

        (a)  by resolution, provide for payment to the United States of whatever amounts are

    necessary to comply with Section 148 (f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and

        (b)  enter into agreements with financial and other institutions and attorneys to provide for:

- 7 -


        (i)  the calculation, holding, and payment of those amounts; and

        (ii)  payment from any legally available source of fees, charges, or other amounts coming due

    under any agreements entered into by the commission.

        Section 9.  Section  63B-6-206 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-206.  Constitutional debt limitation.

        (1)  The commission may not issue bonds under this chapter in an amount that violates the

    limitation described in Utah Constitution Article XIV, Section 1.

        (2)  For purposes of applying the debt limitation contained in Utah Constitution Article XIV,

    Section 1, the value of the taxable property in Utah is considered to be 100% of the fair market value

    of the taxable property of the state, as computed from the last assessment for state purposes previous

    to the issuance of the bonds.

        Section 10.  Section  63B-6-207 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-207.  Tax levy -- Abatement of tax.

        (1)  Each year after issuance of the bonds and until all outstanding bonds are retired, there

    is levied a direct annual tax on all real and personal property within the state subject to state taxation,

    sufficient to pay:

        (a)  applicable bond redemption premiums, if any;

        (b)  interest on the bonds as it becomes due; and

        (c)  principal of the bonds as it becomes due.

        (2) (a)  The State Tax Commission shall fix the rate of the direct annual tax levy each year.

        (b)  The tax shall be collected and the proceeds applied as provided in this chapter.

        (3)  The direct annual tax imposed under this section is abated to the extent money is

    available from sources, other than ad valorem taxes in the sinking fund, for the payment of bond

    interest, principal, and redemption premiums.

        Section 11.  Section  63B-6-208 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-208.  Creation of sinking fund.

        (1)  There is created a sinking fund, to be administered by the state treasurer, entitled the

    "1997 Highway General Obligation Bonds Sinking Fund."

- 8 -


        (2)  All monies deposited in the sinking fund, from whatever source, shall be used to pay debt

    service on the bonds.

        (3)  The proceeds of all taxes levied under this chapter are appropriated to this fund.

        (4)  The state treasurer may create separate accounts within the sinking fund for each series

    of bonds issued.

        Section 12.  Section  63B-6-209 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-209.  Payment of interest, principal, and redemption premiums.

        (1)  The Division of Finance shall draw warrants on the state treasury before any interest,

    principal, or redemption premiums become due on the bonds.

        (2)  After receipt of the warrants, the state treasurer shall:

        (a)  promptly pay the warrants from funds within the sinking fund; and

        (b)  immediately transmit the amount paid to the paying agent for the bonds.

        Section 13.  Section  63B-6-210 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-210.  Investment of sinking fund money.

        (1)  The state treasurer may, by following the procedures and requirements of Title 51,

    Chapter 7, State Money Management Act, invest any money contained in the sinking fund until it

    is needed for the purposes for which the fund is created.

        (2)  Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the commission authorizing the issuance

    of bonds under this chapter, the treasurer shall retain all income from the investment of any money

    contained in the sinking fund in the sinking fund and use it for the payment of debt service on the

    bonds.

        Section 14.  Section  63B-6-211 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-211.  Bond proceeds -- Deposits -- Investment -- Disposition of investment

     income and unexpended proceeds.

        (1) (a)  Proceeds from the sale of bonds issued under this chapter shall be deposited within

    one or more accounts as determined by resolution of the commission.

        (b)  The state treasurer shall administer and maintain these accounts unless otherwise

    provided by the commission by resolution.

- 9 -


        (c)  The commission, by resolution, may provide for the deposit of these monies with a

    trustee and the administration, disposition, or investment of these monies by this trustee.

        (2) (a)  The commission, by resolution, shall provide for the kinds of investments in which

    the proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter may be invested.

        (b)  Income from the investment of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter shall be

    applied as provided by resolution of the commission.

        (3)  Any unexpended bond proceeds issued under this chapter shall be deposited, upon

    completion of the purposes for which the bonds were issued, in the sinking fund, unless otherwise

    provided in the resolution of the commission authorizing the issuance of bonds under this chapter.

        Section 15.  Section  63B-6-212 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-212.  Refunding of bonds.

        (1)  The commission may provide for the refunding of any of the bonds in accordance with

    Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Refunding Bond Act.

        (2)  For purposes of Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Refunding Bond Act, the state of Utah is

    considered the public body and the commission its governing body.

        Section 16.  Section  63B-6-213 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-213.  Certification of satisfaction of conditions precedent -- Conclusiveness.

        (1)  The commission may not issue any bond under this chapter until it finds and certifies that

    all conditions precedent to issuance of the bonds have been satisfied.

        (2)  A recital on any bond of this finding and certification conclusively establishes the

    completion and satisfaction of all such conditions.

        Section 17.  Section  63B-6-214 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-214.  Tax exemption.

        The bonds issued under this chapter, any interest paid on the bonds, and any income from

    the bonds are not taxable in this state for any purpose, except for the corporate franchise tax.

        Section 18.  Section  63B-6-215 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-215.  Legal investment status.

        Bonds issued under this chapter are legal investments for all state trust funds, insurance

- 10 -


    companies, banks, trust companies, and the State School Fund and may be used as collateral to

    secure legal obligations.

        Section 19.  Section  63B-6-216 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-216.  Publication of resolution or notice -- Limitation on actions to contest

     legality.

        (1)  The commission may:

        (a)  publish any resolution it adopts under this chapter once in a newspaper having general

    circulation in Utah; or

        (b)  in lieu of publishing the entire resolution, publish a notice of bonds to be issued, titled

    as such, containing the information required by Subsection 11-14-21(3).

        (2) (a)  Any interested person, for 30 days after the date of publication, may contest:

        (i)  the legality of the resolution;

        (ii)  any of the bonds authorized under it; or

        (iii)  any of the provisions made for the security and repayment of the bonds.

        (b)  After 30 days, a person may not contest the legality of the resolution, any of the bonds

    authorized under it, or any of the provisions made for the security and repayment of the bonds for

    any cause.

        Section 20.  Section  63B-6-217 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-217.  Report to Legislature.

        The governor shall report the commission's proceedings to each annual general session of

    the Legislature in his budget for as long as bonds issued under this chapter remain outstanding.

        Section 21.  Section  63B-6-301 is enacted to read:

     Part 3.  1997 Highway Bond Anticipation Note Authorization


         63B-6-301.  Definitions.

        As used in this part:

        (1)  "Bond anticipation note" means a note issued in anticipation of the receipt of the

    proceeds of the sale of the bonds authorized under Part 2 of this chapter.

        (2)  "Flexible note" means a bond anticipation note whose interest is payable at, and on one

- 11 -


    or more dates before, maturity.

        (3) (a)  "Short-term series note" means a bond anticipation note that is one of a series of notes

    issued pursuant to a financing program under which it is expected that:

        (i)  each note will be paid from the proceeds of one or more renewal notes of that series; and

        (ii)  the final note or notes of the series will be paid from:

        (A)  the proceeds of bonds in anticipation of the receipt of which the note or notes were

    issued; or

        (B)  monies of the state on hand and legally available for that purpose.

        (b)  "Short-term series note" includes any note issued pursuant to a revolving credit

    agreement or other similar liquidity facility for the purpose of renewing or paying outstanding

    short-term series notes on their stated maturity dates when those short-term series notes are not

    renewed or paid from the proceeds of one or more other renewal notes of the series.

        Section 22.  Section  63B-6-302 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-302.  Authorization, terms, and procedures.

        (1)  The state treasurer may, by written order, issue bond anticipation notes and renewals of

    bond anticipation notes, including, but not limited to, flexible notes and short-term series notes, in

    the form and with the terms that he determines.

        (2)  The state treasurer may:

        (a)  enter into whatever agreements with other persons that he considers necessary or

    appropriate in connection with the issuance, sale, and resale of the notes; and

        (b)  resell or retire any notes purchased by the state before the stated maturity of those notes.

        (3) (a)  The notes and renewals of the notes shall:

        (i)  bear the interest rate or rates as determined by the state treasurer; and

        (ii)  mature within a period not to exceed three years.

        (b)  The notes and renewals of notes may:

        (i)  bear a variable interest rate; and

        (ii)  be redeemed prior to maturity by the state treasurer, but only in accordance with the

    provisions of the notes relating to redemption prior to maturity.

- 12 -


        (4)  The proceeds from the sale of the notes may be used only for:

        (a)  the purposes established in Section 63B-6-202;

        (b)  the payment of principal of and, if not otherwise provided, interest on, bond anticipation

    notes;

        (c)  the payment of costs of issuance; or

        (d)  any combination of Subsections (4)(a), (b), and (c).

        (5) (a)  All of the notes and any renewals of the notes shall be payable from the proceeds of

    the sale of bonds.

        (b)  A renewal of any note may not be issued after the sale of bonds in anticipation of which

    the original note was issued.

        (6)  If a sale of the bonds has not occurred before the maturity of the notes issued in

    anticipation of the sale, the state treasurer shall, in order to meet the notes then maturing:

        (a)  issue renewal notes for that purpose;

        (b)  pay the notes from state monies legally available for paying those notes; or

        (c)  any combination of Subsections (6)(a) and (b).

        (7)  Each note and any renewal of any note, with the interest on the note or renewal,

    constitute general obligations of the state.

        (8)  Each note and any renewal of any note, with the interest on the note or renewal, shall be:

        (a)  secured by the full faith, credit, and resources of the state in the manner provided in Part

    2 of this chapter;

        (b)  payable from:

        (i)  the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and not from any other borrowing; and

        (ii)  monies of the state on hand and legally available for that purpose; or

        (iii)  any combination of Subsections (8)(b)(i) and (ii); and

        (c)  payable within five years from the date of original issue.

        (9)  The total amount of notes or renewals of notes issued and outstanding at any one time

    may not exceed the lesser of:

        (a)  the total amount of bonds authorized to be issued but not yet issued; or

- 13 -


        (b)  $260,000,000.

        (10)  The state treasurer shall, in his annual report to the governor, include a detailed

    statement of all notes and bonds issued during the year and of his actions in relation to them.

        Section 23.  Section  63B-6-303 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-303.  Purchase and redemption requirements.

        (1)  The notes and renewals of notes may provide the holders of the notes or renewals of

    notes with the right to require the state or other persons to purchase or redeem the notes or renewal

    notes before the stated maturity of the notes or renewals.

        (2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), the holders of the notes and renewals of notes may not

    be provided with the right to require the state to repurchase or redeem the notes and renewals of the

    notes before their stated maturity unless the state has entered into one or more letter of credit

    agreements or other liquidity facility agreements:

        (a)  for the express purpose of those sales;

        (b)  that require a financially responsible party or parties to the agreement or agreements,

    other than the state, to purchase or redeem all or any portion of the notes and renewals of notes

    tendered by the holders of the notes or renewals of notes for repurchase or redemption before the

    stated maturity of the notes and renewals of notes; and

        (c)  that continue until the right of the holders of the notes and renewals of notes to require

    repurchase or redemption of the notes and renewals of notes before the stated maturity has ceased.

        Section 24.  Section  63B-6-304 is enacted to read:

         63B-6-304.  General provisions -- Funds and accounts.

        (1) (a)  Sections 63B-6-205, 63B-6-206, 63B-6-213, 63B-6-214, 63B-6-215, and 63B-6-216

    apply to any notes or renewals of notes issued under this part.

        (b) (i)  For purposes of this part, any action that those sections require or permit the

    commission to take shall be considered sufficient if taken by the state treasurer.

        (ii)  The treasurer may take action by issuing a written order, or in some other manner that

    he finds necessary or convenient, to accomplish the purposes of this part.

        (2)  The treasurer may:

- 14 -


        (a)  in a written order, establish whatever funds and accounts are necessary or desirable to

    carry out the purposes of this part; and

        (b)  until the monies are needed for the purpose for which the fund or account was created,

    invest the monies held in those funds and accounts by following the procedures and requirements

    of Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act.

- 15 -
[Bill Documents][Bills Directory]









Who represents me?





Remember my Legislators





State Senate
		350 North State, Suite 320
		PO Box 145115
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1035
		Fax: (801) 326-1475



House of Representatives
		350 North State, Suite 350
		PO Box 145030
		Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

		Telephone: (801) 538-1029
		Fax: (801) 326-1544










Home
Mobile Site
Site Map
Calendar
Code / Constitution
House
Senate

Terms of Use/Privacy Policy

ADA
Utah.gov







